---
layout: post
title: "E3 Photos"
date: 2004-05-17 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 454
categories: []
---
Last Thursday I was lucky enough to attend the E3 Gaming Conference.
It's basically a candy store for adolescent boys (or adults who cater to
the inner adolescent). Two words characterize the expo, sex and
videogames. Booth babes were plentiful (in number and cup size), but I
was more interested in the games, games, games!

Unfortunately, I borrowed a coworker's camera and I didn't realize that
none of my pics were in focus! Doh!

![](http://home.comcast.net/~haackayama/images/E3/Starwars_Battleground.jpg)

The game that most caught my attention was Star Wars Battleground. This
game just looked fantastic. The part I played is set on Endor (remember
them furry little half Wookies called Ewoks? Their home town) and it
looks lush. Every plant and tree looks great close-up and you really
feel like your in this densely wooded area fighting in an intense
battle.

![](http://home.comcast.net/~haackayama/images/E3/XBox.jpg)

Doom3 on the X-Box also caught my attention. It has a dark atmosphere
and a very cool beginning stage. You walk into a dark room and basically
need to use your flashlight. As the light falls on some sort of zombie
creature, he wakes up and starts staggering towards you. So you put down
your flashlight to grab your gun and start firing in the dark trying to
hit him till he gets close enough to see. Very cool.

![](http://home.comcast.net/~haackayama/images/E3/BuddyFromAlaska.jpg)

In the "It's a Small World" category, I ran into an old friend from
Alaska, Gavin (pictured on the left). He's a director of marketing with
Motorola and showed me a sweet cell-phone with a touch screen interface
and a 3-D J2ME engine. It'll be coming out in December in the U.S.

![](http://home.comcast.net/~haackayama/images/E3/FearFactorCockroaches.jpg)\
Those Are Cockroaches.

![](http://home.comcast.net/~haackayama/images/E3/Matrix.jpg)

