---
layout: post
title: "Work-life balance"
date: 2004-10-16 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1376
categories: []
---
![FastCompany](/images/FastCompany.jpg) Read [this
article](http://www.fastcompany.com/magazine/87/balance-1.html) at
FastCompany pointed to by [Steve Maine](http://hyperthink.net/blog/) and
maybe I'm lazy, but I totally disagree.

The article makes the point that the concept of "work-life balance" is a
pipe dream. What the article fails to mention are the associated health
problems for many workaholics. For programmers in particular, ailments
such as RSI are common (though many programmers such as myself count
programming as a hobby as well which would also contribute).

The article briefly dismisses the European notion of "Working To Live".
I think in doing so, it fails to address the societal and cultural
issues that often drive a work-life imbalance. How successful is this
notion of succeeding at all costs as a source of fulfillment? The
article mentions that imbalance is required to gain real productivity,
but is that the measure of one's success?

It's well documented that Americans tend to spend their hard earned
money on things and possesions while Europeans spend more on vacations
and events. Should work be the primary defining character trait of a
person? In the U.S., the first question in any social setting is "What
do you do?". In many European countries, it's a social gaffe to ask that
of a stranger. Why not ask, "What do you like to do?".

It's my contention that this single minded focus on materialism (and I'm
not totally against materialism as I LOVE my iPod) is the driving force
behind working too much. If one were to step back and look at what
really gives one fulfillment, I think priorities will often be
rearranged. Not that I'm against working hard. I love to write code and
read books about coding and software management in my spare time.
However, I also realize the value of defining myself along other
interests as well. I realize the value of maintaining my health via
excercise and of my mental health through maintaining meaningful
relationships with friends and family.

It reminds me of something I've heard somewhere or other. How often do
you hear people in the twilight of their lives or on their death beds
reflect on the wonderful time they spent at the office?

