---
layout: post
title: "The Boing Boing Effect"
date: 2004-09-02 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1118
categories: []
---
Wired printed an article recently (I wish I could remember the title)
that discussed the network structure of relationships and fame. For
example, imagine individuals as nodes in a big graph. Join the nodes by
drawing directional vertices that indicate whether a person knows of
another person. An arrow drawn from Bob to Alice indicates Bob knows
Alice. The fact that there's no arrow from Alice to Bob indicates Bob's
a total loser (or stalker).

In this graph, the average person's node will have a roughly balanced
number of arrows pointing in as arrows pointing out. That makes sense
because in general, you'll know around the same number of people that
know you unless you're a total loner. But for the truly famous, say for
example Bill Gates, the arrows pointing in hugely outnumber the arrows
out, which explains the hoard of people asking him for money. The effect
of this is that there's no way for Bill to have personal communications
with everyone who knows of him. There's literally not enough time (not
to mention incentive).

The article goes on to discuss how this relates to websites and blogs.
For the relative unknown majority out there with blogs (such as this
one), the number of arrows pointing in is quite small. Yep. Most likely,
your blog is downright obscure. However, there is one advantage. Having
a small readership allows one to actually participate in the small
number of inane conversations that spark from time to time in the
comments section of a post. The fact I even have a comments section is
often indicative of the small audience I serve.

However, once you turn it up a notch in audience size, things change.
For instance, you'll probably never get feedback from someone at the
truly collosal sites such as CNN.com. Even sites that are somewhere in
the middle such as [Boing Boing](http://boingboing.net/) and
[Slashdot](http://Slashdot.com/) have such a large audience that two-way
communication is pretty non-existent.

To give you an idea of the mindshare these sites have, consider the
following stats. A micro-node blog like mine gets around 40 web views
and 150 aggregator views per post on average. That's pretty darn
insignificant, but at least I can be pretty sure that those aren't all
accounted for by my wife. Non-family members actually read this. **"Hi
y'all. Welcome! I come in peace!"** Now suppose a site like
[BoingBoing](http://boingboing.net/) decides to [link to a
post](http://www.boingboing.net/2004/08/30/rncnyc_daily_geek_pr.html) on
this humble site like they did last week. Such an action leads to 18,365
web views (and counting) with 216 aggregator views. Keep in mind that
this represents a small subsection of the entire Boing Boing readership
who took the time to actually follow a link to some nobody's blog. Talk
about alot of arrows pointing in.

