---
layout: post
title: "Google AdSense in RSS Ineffective?"
date: 2005-04-26 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 2839
categories: []
---
As you've probably heard, Google is [testing AdSense within
RSS](http://weblogs.asp.net/rmclaws/archive/2005/04/26/404469.aspx) on a
single site.

I love the idea of being able to include a Google AdSense ad within my
RSS feed and watching the money roll in. At least in theory. Once ads
proliferate in RSS feeds, ad-blockers within RSS aggregators will
proliferate. Just look at [this prototyped
ad-blocker](http://www.rendelmann.info/blog/default.aspx?date=2005-03-04)
for [RSS Bandit](http://www.rssbandit.org/) that
[Torsten](http://www.rendelmann.info/blog/) developed.

Another issue that comes to mind is that the audience for web ads is not
the same audience for rss feeds. I have a theory that those who find my
site via a Google search are more likely to click on an ad than someone
who is subscribed to my RSS feed?

Why is that? It boils down to the fact that a subscriber via RSS isn't
likely to be in the middle of a search for a particular piece of
information while reading my blog as would a Google user. Rather, I
suspect that he or she is a friend or a geek wondering if I'll finally
be inspired someday to write something worthwhile because I once wrote
something interesting enough some time ago that encouraged this person
to add me to his or her aggregator and now only inertia keeps this
person from unsubscribing. But I digress.

Unfortunately, I don't have any hard (or even soft) numbers to back this
claim up because I don't have ads in my RSS feed. Recently I was linked
to on [Scoble's link blog](http://www.scobleizer.com/linkblog/) which
jumped up the number of aggregator views, while my web views remained
constant. Likewise, my tiny advertising revenue for that day stayed
constant as would be expected because those who read my blog via an
aggregator aren't likely to take their time to look at the actual site
and click on an ad. I'd love to know what the effect would have been had
my feed included an ad.

When I post something that users find via Google, my web views jump as
does my advertising revenue, which makes perfect sense. I'll be watching
with interest to see how Google's experiment with Longhorn blogs does
and if they end up rolling it out to everyone. I'll certainly experiment
with it to see if my conjecture is correct unless I get a backlash from
commenters saying they'd rather not see it in personal blogs. Thoughts?

As for my advertising revenue in case you were wondering, I'm strictly a
small fry, though I do make more than enough to pay for hosting.

[Listening to: 3-2-1 Fire! - Fat Boy Slim - Fatboy Slim: Live On
Brighton Beach (4:34)]

