---
layout: post
title: "Helping Social Software Be More Sociable"
date: 2005-01-01 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1793
categories: []
---
I read with interest [Dare's
post](http://www.25hoursaday.com/weblog/PermaLink.aspx?guid=101325f8-dc54-4340-a674-c32c31c6db97)
on the quandary social software finds itself in today. In a nutshell,
the current crop of social software tools are not very sociable once you
step outside of the particular tool. It's really like one big world wide
cliquish high-school. Your orkuts won't talk to the friendsters who
won't talk to the Amazons and so on...

As Dare points out, there's really no business incentive for these
companies to allow users to export their social networks. They probably
contain teams of marketers who drool at the personal information they
are gathering and the opportunities of marketing. Why share?

I've tried to [flesh out some ideas
before](http://haacked.com/archive/2004/02/18/201.aspx) on how I see
social software evolving, but it occurred to me that there's two
possible solutions. The first is to create a profit motive for sharing.
Once you give Google an incentive to allow users networks to be exposed
outside of Orkut, they'll do it.

Ok, that's obvious. The question is how? Well first, users have to
demand more control over their own data. Unfortunately, users don't have
that much leverage right now. They can threaten to leave Orkut, but only
to move to Friendster? That only trades one closed network for another.
My answer is to not leave social software soley in the hands of profit
driven businesses. I think as tools like DasBlog and .TEXT evolv, it's
possible to create a social network that is completely based on open
standards.

Take a look at [RSS Bandit](http://www.rssbandit.org/). As an open
source RSS aggregator, it has no incentive (nor capability) to keep its
data private. Thus it supports exporting feeds as OPML as well as many
other standards. Another example is the [Jabber](http://www.jabber.org)
protocol. Although it's not widely adopted, the jabber protocol for
instant messaging is another step in the right direction as its
communication format is an open standard. Anyone can make a client to
the protocol. Contrast this to the IM wars seen between Trillian, MSN,
AIM, and Yahoo.

If these tools can gain traction and users start to demand control over
their data and leave the closed systems for these open systems, we may
see a move by these companies to open their systems in order to maintain
a piece of the action. Hopefully these companies will focus on providing
the best tools for navigating the various open networks as their point
of distinction, rather than holding users data hostage.

