---
layout: post
title: "Greatness"
date: 2005-12-06 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 11307
categories: []
---
![The Greatest](http://haacked.com/images/TheGreatest.jpg) [Wesner
writes
that](http://wesnerm.blogs.com/net_undocumented/2005/12/think_big.html)
a couple of readers criticized him for his desire to aspire for
greatness. Well obviously Wesner, you should aspire for mediocrity! In
any case, one reader comments,

> YOU do not get to tell if you are great or not.

And I agree that you do not get to decide if “history” or the public at
large considers you to be “great” in whatever definition of that word
you mean. However that misses the point entirely. Who gives a rat’s ass
what the public thinks.

**Visualize Greatness**\
 Wesner’s point is that his life is under his control, not that of
others. Therefore it does not really matter whether the public sees him
as great. Rather, he will strive for greatness and let the chips fall
where they may. At least that’s my take on it, and you know I’m never
wrong.

A valuable lesson I learned a long time ago is to **behave as if you’ve
reached where you want to be**. You want to be a better soccer player,
adopt the habits and obtain the mindset of a better player. You want to
be a better developer, behave like one. This goes beyond simply
visualizing your goals and has applications in many facets of life.

**Business**\
 My first job out of college was at a very small consulting company. We
wanted to grow and be a larger, well organized, well executing company.
However there were times I would get frustrated at our progress and our
perceived lack of professionalism. It occurred to me one day that I had
to stop whining about it and start behaving as if we were already the
company we strived to be. So we worked at it, became better organized,
and started executing like a more professional firm (certainly with our
ups and downs). We started to behave like a well run larger firm and it
worked!

**Relationships**\
 Despite all evidence to the contrary, I wasn’t exactly a ladies man
growing up, and a lot of it had to do with lack of self confidence. It
wasn’t till college that I started to get my “flow” going. In part this
was a result of starting to behave in a confident manner as if I was
already God’s gift to women. Sure enough, it had an effect. Just ask my
wife about the night we met. Perhaps I was a bit too confident. ;)

For me, I’m not necessarily striving for greatness. Greatness is a very
vague term. I would prefer well-liked and well-respected. That would do
nicely. Just remember, it’s not wrong to strive for greatness or other
goals, just behave in a manner of one who has achieved the goals.

