---
layout: post
title: "Should Unit Tests Touch the Database?"
date: 2005-10-20 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 10941
categories: []
---
I know there are unit testing purists who say unit tests by definition
should never touch the database. Instead you should use mock objects or
some other contraption. And in part, I agree with them. Given unlimited
time, I will gladly take that approach.

But I work on real projects with real clients and tight deadlines. So I
will secretly admit that this is one area I am willing to sacrifice a
bit of purity. Besides, at some point, you just have to test the full
interaction of your objects with the database. You want to make sure
your stored procedures are correct etc...

However, I do follow a few rules to make sure that this is as pure as
possible.

First, I always try and test against a local database. Ideally, I will
script the schema and lookup data so that my unit tests will create the
database. MbUnit has an attribute that allows you to perform a setup
operation on assembly load and teardown when the tested assembly
unloads. That would be a good place to set up the database so you don’t
have to do it for every test. However, often, I set up the database by
hand once and let my tests just assume a clean database is already
there.

Except for lookup data, my tests create all the data they will use using
whichever API and objects I am testing. Each test runs within a COM+ 1.5
transaction using a [RollBack
attribute](http://haacked.com/archive/2005/06/10/4580.aspx) so that no
changes are stored after each test. This ensures that each test is
testing against the same exact database.

This is the reason I can be a bit lazy and set up the database by hand,
since the none of the tests will change the data in the database.
Although I would prefer to have a no-touch approach where the unit tests
set up the database. For that, there is
[TestFu](http://www.testdriven.com/modules/mylinks/visit.php?cid=4&lid=499&PHPSESSID=868711b3b596c3eeed313b5d7a2cbac7)
which is now part of [TestDriven.Net](http://www.testdriven.com/).

From my experience, I think this approach is a good middle ground for
many projects. A more purist approach might separate the tests that
touch the database into a separate assembly, but still use NUnit or
MbUnit to run them. Perhaps that assembly would be called
IntegrationTests.dll instead of UnitTests.dll. It’s your choice.

