---
layout: post
title: "Faster than Einstein"
date: 2005-11-07 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 11154
categories: []
---
Ingo Rammer [writes about the theoretical
limit](http://blogs.thinktecture.com/ingo/comments/414304.aspx) to
reducing latency. Since 1994, we’ve reduced latency by 10 times, but
increased bandwidth by millions. We can make the pipes fatter, but we
can’t make the data any faster than the speed of light unless, as Ingo
points out, “you prove Einstein wrong”.

According to Einstein’s special theory of relativity, the speed of light
is an absolute barrier. Not only is the speed of light itself limited,
but anything that communicates information is also bound by that limit.

The reason for this is that the speed of light is the same in all frames
of references. Suppose I’m in a train heading east from California to
New York at half the speed of light and I pull out a flashlight (maybe
it is dark in there). I face the flashlight toward the front of the
train (say it is 100 meters away) and turn it on. The beam of light from
my frame of reference appears to head east at 186,282.4 miles per second
which is denoted by the constant *c* (as in the c in *E=mc^2^*) and
reaches the front of the train in a split second.

Now suppose somebody in Nebraska happens to be sitting outside watching
the trains go by and sees me turn on the flashlight. From his
perspective, the beam of light travels west to east at exactly the same
speed *c*. Interestingly enough though, during that same split second,
the beam of light travels farther before it reaches the front of the
train, because the train itself is moving. How is it possible that
light, travelling at the same speed, travels two different distances in
the same amount of time?

It doesn’t. The elapsed time itself is different from our two
perspectives. This is the paradoxical (but experimentally verified)
phenomena called time dilation.

So what does this have to do with latency? The perceived time dilation
is the ratio between an external observer’s perceived time and the time
perceived by an observer approaching the speed of light. As the the
latter observer gets closer to the speed of light, the ratio approaches
zero. This would violate causality. If we could send a ping faster than
light, from one frame of reference an obsever would observe that the
ping was sent before it was received (as expected by causality), but in
another frame of reference, the observer would observe the ping as being
sent *after* it was received.

So is it possible to prove Einstein wrong? Perhaps, but not likely. Time
dilation has been experimentally verified. There is promise in Quantum
Entanglement, but so far it seems impossible to to transmit information
using this approach. There are a class of theoretical particles (non
have been observed) that might be faster than light, but these would
also run into *c* as a barrier. In this theory, the speed of light is
impossibly slow. Good luck trying to rope one of them in to send your
ping packet. Those particles are most likely travelling backwards in
time, thus not violating causality. They just exhibit causality in a
different direction.

If anything will prove Einstein wrong (and I am skeptical) is
discovering that causality itself is not sancrosanct. Perhaps [time
itself](http://www.cgold.com.au/prophecyline/TI.htm) is [an
illusion](http://www.iwaynet.net/~wdc/time.htm).

