---
layout: post
title: "How Not To Please Your Clients"
date: 2005-11-03 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 11126
categories: []
---
![Toilet](http://haacked.com/images/toilet.jpg) A while ago I [wrote
that](http://haacked.com/archive/2005/08/18/9536.aspx) a client often
often does not know what he wants until he sees it. I was referring to
software development, but this is common across many professional
services organization, such as plumbing for example.

This week I had the opportunity to be on the client side of things when
we noticed our toilet was leaking. I thought I knew what the problem
was. It seemed to me that the toilet was leaking from its base. So I
told the plumber that and he came in and tightened the base. No water
seemed to be coming from the base afterwards so he left.

Later that evening we noticed that the carpet behind the toilet was
still wet. So I looked carefully and noticed the flex tube from the stop
valve to the tank was dripping water.

The next day the plumber comes back and he replaces the flex tube and
leaves. I take a look and notice it is still leaking. I call him and he
returns and finally figures out that the ring where the flex tube’s
connects to the tank is the culprit, and replaces the flush valve and
other inner components (I’m no expert in toiletology). It took him three
trips to fix the problem with the throne.

**1st Lesson: Get to the real root of the problem.**\
 All in all, the toilet was fixed, but the quality of service was poor.
The lesson here is rather than simply assuming the client (in this case
me) knows what he wants, take the time to perform due diligence. He is
the professional. What do I know about toilets except that they’re great
for pondering life’s mysteries.

As software developers, we have to take the time to gather proper
requirements and ask the right questions. Our clients certainly know
their own domains very well, but they don’t necessarily know a lot about
software and how exactly software can help them.

**2nd Lesson: Double Check Your Work.**\
 Once you do gather requirements and do the job, make sure you succeed
in delivering what the clients want. It helps if you define clear
acceptance criteria up front. For example, my acceptance criteria were
very clear. I want my toilet not to leak. Ideally the plumber, knowing
all he knows about plumbing, should be thorough in making sure that
requirement was met.

