---
layout: post
title: "What's the Demand For a Decent Open Source Web Based Aggregator?"
date: 2005-03-21 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 2422
categories: []
---
Forgive me for not doing a thorough search for prior art, but I noticed
[this post](http://www.tkachenko.com/blog/archives/000407.html) by Oleg
Tkachenko in which he's in need of a decent server-side aggregation code
base.

The reason it caught my attention is that "server-side" is my specialty.
That's where I've spent the great majority of my time in my various day
jobs. But doing server-side work is like living underground. Every once
in a while, you need to get cleaned up, shave, and poke your head
aboveground and let humanity see your face. That was partly my
motivation in haacking on RSS Bandit. I wanted to get more exposure to
working on a "client-side" product. (The other part is that it was such
a kick-ass product, I had to get involved.)

Taking the core RSS Bandit "NewsComponents.dll" and slapping it on a
server for simple server-side aggregation probably wouldn't take much
work at all. What's would be more interesting (and a lot more work) is
taking it a step further and building a full-featured web-based
aggregator.

Using so called "Ajax" techniques (which is really just a [repackaging
of existing
technologies](http://www.25hoursaday.com/weblog/PermaLink.aspx?guid=018ea507-4a62-4493-b01b-321e3672d725),
including Microsoft's proprietary XMLHttpRequest object and should be
called POXSCRIPT for Plain Old Xml and Scripting), I can envision a
web-based RSS Bandit that looks and functions quite similarly to the
rich client. We could call it "RSS Bandit Web Access" as a nod to
"Outlook Web Access".

Now, the need for such an undertaking is dampened by the fact that RSS
Bandit has a [very nice synchronization
mechanism](http://www.rssbandit.org/docs/html/syncronization/using_bandit_from_multiple_computers.htm)
so that using it from multiple computers isn't a huge pain. Necessity
being the mother of invention, this feature makes it so that I
personally don't see a web-based version as a huge necessity.

The other dampener is that I do have to pay my bills via billable work
now. This would be the type of project I'd love to dive into and work on
full time. The temptation would probably be too great and I'd neglect so
many responsibilities to do so, becoming that underground mole I
mentioned earlier. ;)

Anyways, this is just food for thought. How popular would such a package
be? How many people have a web-server to install it on?

[Listening to: Intec Jimpy / Talkin (Terrantella Vs Redanka Remix) -
Sasha - Global Underground Ibiza CD 1 (7:03)]

