---
layout: post
title: "The Poor Management Epidemic"
date: 2005-10-09 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 10657
categories: []
---
I’ve noticed a bit of talk lately about poor management such as [this
piece](http://www.25hoursaday.com/weblog/PermaLink.aspx?guid=3dddf724-6a1a-4991-9486-b76564d19280)
from [Dare](http://www.25hoursaday.com/weblog/) and [this
one](http://minimsft.blogspot.com/2005/10/middle-managers-bureaucracy-and-no.html)
from [Mini-Microsoft](http://minimsft.blogspot.com/).

While they focus on poor management at Microsoft, Microsoft does not
have a monopoly on poor management. Indeed, it is rampant in the
industry.

In general, I see one two main afflictions that affects corporate
thinking in America. It is from these two items that all other problems
seem to sprout from.

-   Placing short-sighted goals above all strategic and long-term
    planning.
-   Making decisions based on hopes rather than analysis and objective
    data.

A typical scenario might look like this. A company is starting a
software project and ask their tech team (or consultants), “Hey, how
long will it take to build this?” A reasonable question, but
surprisingly difficult to answer because as we know, [business types
often don’t really know what they
want](http://haacked.com/archive/2004/08/04/878.aspx).

After spending some time gathering requirements, the whole time being
pressured by the business team, the tech team delivers a rushed
estimate. Unfortunately for the tech team, the business types have
already promised delivery of the product in half the time of the
estimate.

So what happens now? Perhaps the company offers some token incentive and
a pep talk about pulling together and taking one for the team by
entering crunch mode from the start. Maybe they’ll even hire a few more
developers attempting to prove that nine women can indeed have a baby in
one month.

Perhaps the tech team understands the principle of the project triangle.

> There are three goals of every project: Good, Fast, Cheap. You can
> pick two.

But try telling that to management. You ask them if they will prioritize
features, and they come back with a list where *every* feature is
priority \#1.

At this point, the company is managing by hopes and fairy tales. They
*hoped* the time they promised was reasonable. They *hope* the tech team
can complete the project done in time. The tech team wants to put in
place a longer design and planning phase, but management want them to
get coding because they *hope* there won’t be any coding problems. The
management team does’t keep a list of risks because they *hope* nothing
bad will happen.

Invariably, by putting these shortsighted goals above the long term
success of the project, they manage to make the project progress even
slower than had they allocated the correct amount of time. Certainly it
is possible they will get a deliverable on time. But a deliverable that
is very much a [house of
cards](http://haacked.com/archive/2005/09/24/10336.aspx).

To see the epidemic nature of this scenario, you only need to read the
paper. The recent classic example is the [Virtual Case File
project](http://www.spectrum.ieee.org/sep05/1682). After more than three
years and \$170 million spent, the entire project was scrapped. That is
\$170 million in taxpayer money down the drain because of complete
ineptitude, poor management by both the client (the FBI) and their
vendor.

We can probably create a hughe catalog of business failures due to short
sightedness and management through hopes.

UPDATE: [Jon Galloway](http://weblogs.asp.net/jgalloway/) turned me on
to [Johanna Rothman’s blog](http://www.jrothman.com/weblog/). She has a
[great
example](http://www.jrothman.com/weblog/2005/09/tracking-licenses-as-way-of-tracking.html)
of how managers can be “penny-wise and pound-foolish”. Just another
example of being short-sighted.

[Listening to: Circuit Breaker - Röyksopp - The Understanding (5:25)]

