---
layout: post
title: "By This Criteria, I Must Be Awesome"
date: 2005-08-27 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 9724
categories: []
---
[Jeff Atwood
writes](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/archives/000373.html) that
truly great programmers are not only lazy, but dumb too.

If you ask my wife, you’ll learn that I’m about the laziest guy around.
In fact, I’m quite tempted to end this blog post at that, but I’ll fight
my natural state and continue.

To bolster my case I should add that my short-term memory makes you
wonder if the movie *[Memento](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0209144/)*
was inspired by me.

So what was I writing about? Oh yeah, by this criteria I must be the
greatest programmer ever! At least I thought so until I read that
[humility is
also](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/archives/000051.html) a key trait
to programming success.

Humility?

Look. I’m here to make computers obey my every command, not seek
enlightenment in a monastery after 20 reincarnated lifetimes of trying
not to step on insects. How does one embrace humility while trying to
act as a complete and total authoritarian to a machine? To the machine,
I am God! Bwahahaha.

If you thought your last girlfriend was controlling, you haven’t seen a
developer with a computer. You ever see how a software developer gets
when the computer doesn’t obey his/her commands to the letter? Let’s
just say the stream of profanities is enough to make a grown sailor cry
to momma.

But here goes... he’s totally right! There’s nothing more frustrating
than that developer who won’t admit a gap in his or her knowledge. That
person has ceased to grow as a developer.

Heck, I met a guy who just might have well known everything there was to
know about writing software (as others seemed to indicate). But I also
learned that he was an arrogant insufferable prick and was nearly
impossible to work with. What’s the use of a developer who knows it all
when he is incapable of sharing it with his team and brings down
everyone’s morale?

So to bolster my claim to the title of “Best Programmer In The World”
(and in an attempt to wrestle the title away from Jeff), I humbly admit
that I know jack shit about software development. In fact, I’m really
just a janitor using the computer at the library to post this. The
persona of “Haacked” is really one of my many fine personalities. Good
evening and I’ll get to that spill in room \#327 soon enough.

