---
layout: post
title: "Real Madrid Was a Treat, Despite Glitches"
date: 2005-07-18 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 8887
categories: []
---
![Zinedine Zidane](http://haacked.com/images/ZidaneOnTheAttack.jpg)

You know how in Monopoly you can draw a Community Chest card that says
“Bank Error In Your Favor, Collect \$200?” We had one of those moments
regarding the Real Madrid vs Galaxy game.

The Galaxy put in place a rule that in order to purchase tickets to the
Real Madrid game, you had to purchase as many tickets to another Galaxy
game. A somewhat sleazy tactic to raise sales, but I wasn’t complaining
too much. I figured more soccer is better than less.

So we purchased two tickets to the July 4th game against New England and
two tickets to the Real Madrid game. In the mail, we only received one
ticket for the Real Madrid game.

So I sent emails and got on the phone to customer support last Friday to
no avail. I discovered that we only were charged for one ticket, so I
began to worry that we would not be able to pick up another ticket
because the game was sold out. Yesterday, I spent an hour or so trying
to work my way through customer support to make sure our other ticket
would be there at the box office and would be seated next to the first
ticket.

When we got there, the will call line was a mess. It seems that everyone
who bought via the Galaxy Online website was having problems with their
orders. Apparently they were unable to send out all the tickets they
intended to and got a lot of orders wrong. The line was held up as they
tried to print the tickets from the system while scalpers hovered about
offering tickets for \$200 a piece.

I wanted to hand the Galaxy my business card and tell them I can help
build them a new software system and business process to improve their
ticket sales management. ;) Meanwhile, those who purchased from
TicketMaster seemed to have no trouble at all.

Sure enough, when we got there, we got a second ticket in a completely
different section. However, it turns out that they could only give us a
\$75.00 ticket in a much nicer section (which I think they comped us).
Not pleased with the prospect of my wife sitting alone, I figured we
would both check out the section to see if there were empty seats.

It turns out that the ticket was in an ideal location, section 108 row M
right near midfield, much better than our original seats. We decided to
try it out and we ran into a couple of soccer buddies (one who works for
Fox Soccer Channel) and a few empty seats in a prime location in section
109. Goooooooooooooal!

The game itself was quite entertaining. It was clear that the Galaxy was
overmatched, as Real Madrid scored early and with ease on the part of
Zidane’s superb play. However, the Galaxy put in a good showing and
showed some grit. The highlight though, was Zidane’s amazing control and
composure with the ball, not to mention scoring midfield seats.

