---
layout: post
title: "This Could Remove All The Fun From When A Coworker Leaves Her Computer Unlocked"
date: 2005-08-15 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 9440
categories: []
---
![Wireless PC Lock](http://haacked.com/images/wirelesspclock.gif) I
don’t know about you, but running into an unlocked workstation in the
office is like finding a voucher for a free airline ticket and hotel
stay at Vegas complete with gambling money. In other words, pure fun.
*(Ok, perhaps I overstated that a bit. I’d much prefer the free stay in
Vegas. Anyone? Anyone?)*

There are any number of interesting pranks you can pull, but my favorite
continues to be to take a screenshot of the user’s desktop, and then
move all desktop shortcuts into a backup folder. Also make sure to hide
all the taskbars. Then find a decent inconspicuous vantage point and
watch as the unsuspecting user flounders with an unresponsive desktop.
That’s usually good for a few laughs.

Alternatives include replacing desktop background with embarassing
images and changing all the sounds in the systems to embarassing sounds,
or simply to sounds for other system functions. The last one is quite
subtle, but can be quite confusing as it shows how reliant we can become
on sound to navigate a computer.

In any case, in his role as desktop hijinks party pooper, [Scott
Hanselman](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/) has
[unveiled](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/PermaLink,guid,e2f7b2ed-27b9-471d-97b3-e3fed7dd0b8c.aspx)
his latest installment of his “[Some Assembly
Required](http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/someassemblyrequired/isthatyou/default.aspx)”
column.

In this installment, he highlights a fine piece of USB hardware, a
wireless pc lock, used to automatically lock your machine when you are
away. The hardware unfortunately comes with some lame software, so he
proceeds to build improved software that can not only lock your machine
when you’re away, but set your IM status to away (along with other
functions and an extensibility model). That’s pretty sweet and all, but
if this catches on, finding unlocked workstations could be a thing of
the past (unless you happen to wander into the business or marketing
department, the source of all email viruses in any company).

Well, I guess there’ll always the prank of stealing the USB dongle.

**Security Question**\
 I am a little ignorant about how USB works, but one security question
this raises is what happens if you walk away, and I put an intermediate
USB device between the dongle and the computer, and record the data
going back and forth. When the user returns, he or she is quite unlikely
to notice if the dongle is in the back of the computer (think corporate
workstation). How will this device and software protect against that?

