---
layout: post
title: "Subtext Progress Report."
date: 2005-06-22 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 7125
categories: [subtext]
---
![Subtext Logo](http://subtextproject.com/images/SubtextLogo.png) I’ve
been intentionally quiet about how Subtext is progressing (apart from a
couple [minor posts](http://haacked.com/archive/2005/06/22/7116.aspx) on
how to obtain the code via CVS). My reticense is certainly not from lack
of excitement or enjoyment of the project. Working on Subtext has been
about the most enjoyable software development project I’ve ever had the
pleasure to work on. So much so, that I’ve fallen a bit behind on my
“real” work. Unfortunately this has caught up to me as I now have two
projects with a potential third not far behind to work on (Yes, I know.
A good problem to have, so quitcher belly-aching). This is very exciting
for me as it may herald the beginning of a company. But it also means I
need to slow down on Subtext a bit.

The reason I have been so reticent about Subtext up to this point is
that we have not yet had a release. It was suggested to me that I
probably should’t have waited to make the original Subtext announcement
until I had a first release. This is definitely good advice for one who
is starting an open source project. However, it may have helped in my
case that I was building on an existing project familiar to many. And
the few who did jump at the chance to help have been invaluable in what
progress we’ve made so far.

What progress you ask? Well as you can see in this post, we are making
great progress in having a nice logo. This is not the final logo, but
probably really close. As you know, if a project has a nice logo, the
code must really be nice. ;)

Subtext is progressing nicely in other areas too. So much so that I
upgraded my blog to Subtext after a [particularly withering comment spam
attack](http://haacked.com/archive/2005/06/20/7047.aspx). Subtext hasn’t
yet completely eradicated comment spam, but it definitely has made a
difference already.

In any case, I hoped not to talk much about it until we did have a
release, but here I am anyways blabbing my ~~mouth~~ fingers. The goal
of the first release is to generate excitement about the project and
have many more contributors help with the next release. By talking about
it now rather than waiting, I hope to try and encourage people to
contribute before the first release. As my involvement declines for a
few months (hopefully at most), I hope to have others pick up some of
the slack and carry the ~~torch~~ sub forward.

**Project Website**\
 If you’re interested in tracking the progress of subtext, check out our
new project website at
[http://subtextproject.com/](subtextproject.com/). It is definitely a
work in progress, but it has plenty of instructions for how to get the
latest source code and how to contribute. Not only that, the site itself
is in our CVS repository. So if you want to contribute to our
documentation efforts (please! please!), you can submit patches to the
project site.

**Roadmap**\
 Also be sure to check out the [updated
Roadmap](http://subtextproject.com/Roadmap/).

Well that’s it for me. I spent today on some Subtext housekeeping to
clear the way for others to make some nice progress. I’ll probably be
much more quite for a few months, though I will respond to emails and
such and continue to try and guide the process. It’s been and continues
to be fun sailing.

