---
layout: post
title: "Simulating Http Context For Unit Tests Without Using Cassini nor IIS"
date: 2005-06-11 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 4617
categories: []
---
UPDATE: I have recently posted a [newer and better version of this
code](http://haacked.com/archive/2007/06/19/unit-tests-web-code-without-a-web-server-using-httpsimulator.aspx "HttpSimulator")
on my blog.

As I’ve [stated
before](http://haacked.com/archive/2004/11/30/1687.aspx), I’m a big fan
of completely self-contained unit tests. When unit testing ASP.NET
pages, base classes, controls and such, I use the technique [outlined by
Scott Hanselman in this
post](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/PermaLink.aspx?guid=944a5284-6b8d-4366-81e8-2e241401e1b3).
In fact, several of the unit tests for [RSS
Bandit](http://www.rssbandit.org/) use this technique in order to test
RSS auto-discovery and similar features.

However, there are cases when I want a “lightweight” quick and dirty way
to test library code that will be used by an ASP.NET project. For
example, take a look at this very contrived example that follows a
common pattern...

/// \<summary\>

/// Obtains some very important information.

/// \</summary\>

/// \<returns\>\</returns\>

public SomeInfo GetSomeInfo()

{

    SomeInfo info = HttpContext.Current.Items["CacheKey"] as SomeInfo;

    if(info == null)

    {

        info = new SomeInfo();

        HttpContext.Current.Items["CacheKey"] = info;

    }

    return info;

}

The main purpose of this method is to get some information in the form
of the `SomeInfo` class. Normally, this would be very straightforward to
unit test except for one little problem. This method has a side-effect.
Apparently, it’ll cost you to obtain this information, so the method
checks the Context’s Items dictionary (which serves as the current
request’s cache) first before paying the cost to create the `SomeInfo`
instance. Afterwards it places that instance in the `Items` dictionary.

If I try and test this method in NUnit, I’ll run into a
`NullReferenceException` when attempting to access the static `Current`
property of `HttpContext`.

One option around this is to factor the logic between the caching into
its own method and test that. But in this case, I want to test that the
caching works and doesn’t cause any unintended consequences.

Another option is to fire up Cassini in my unit test, create a website
that uses this code, and test the method that way, but that’s a “heavy”
(and potentially very indirect) way to test this method.

As I stated before, I wanted a “lightweight” means to test this method.
There wouldn’t be a problem if `HttpContext.Current` was a valid
instance of `HttpContext`. Luckily, the static `Current` property of
`HttpContext` is both readable and writeable. All it takes is to set
that property to a properly created instance of `HttpContext`. However,
creating that instance wasn’t as straightforward as my first attempt.
I’ll spare you the boring details and just show you what I ended up
with.

I wrote the following static method in my `UnitTestHelper` class. All
the write statements to the console shows the values for commonly
accessed properties of the `HttpContext` Note that this method could be
made more general for your use. This is the version within Subtext.

/// \<summary\>

/// Sets the HTTP context with a valid simulated request

/// \</summary\>

/// \<param name="host"\>Host.\</param\>

/// \<param name="application"\>Application.\</param\>

public static void SetHttpContextWithSimulatedRequest(string host,
string application)

{

    string appVirtualDir = "/";

    string appPhysicalDir =
@"c:\\projects\\SubtextSystem\\Subtext.Web\\";

    string page = application.Replace("/", string.Empty) +
"/default.aspx";

    string query = string.Empty;

    TextWriter output = null;

 

    SimulatedHttpRequest workerRequest = new
SimulatedHttpRequest(appVirtualDir, appPhysicalDir, page, query, output,
host);

    HttpContext.Current = new HttpContext(workerRequest);

 

    Console.WriteLine("Request.FilePath: " +
HttpContext.Current.Request.FilePath);

    Console.WriteLine("Request.Path: " +
HttpContext.Current.Request.Path);

    Console.WriteLine("Request.RawUrl: " +
HttpContext.Current.Request.RawUrl);

    Console.WriteLine("Request.Url: " +
HttpContext.Current.Request.Url);

    Console.WriteLine("Request.ApplicationPath: " +
HttpContext.Current.Request.ApplicationPath);

    Console.WriteLine("Request.PhysicalPath: " +
HttpContext.Current.Request.PhysicalPath);

}

You’ll notice this code makes use of a class named
`SimulatedHttpRequest`. This is a class that inherits from
`SimpleWorkRequest` which itself inherits from `HttpWorkerRequest`.
Using [Reflector](http://www.aisto.com/roeder/dotnet/), I spent a bit of
time looking at how the HttpContext class implements certain properties.
This allows me to tweak the `SimulatedHttpRequest` to mock up the type
of request I want. The code for this class is...

/// \<summary\>

/// Used to simulate an HttpRequest.

/// \</summary\>

public class SimulatedHttpRequest : SimpleWorkerRequest

{

    string \_host;

 

    /// \<summary\>

    /// Creates a new \<see cref="SimulatedHttpRequest"/\> instance.

    /// \</summary\>

    /// \<param name="appVirtualDir"\>App virtual dir.\</param\>

    /// \<param name="appPhysicalDir"\>App physical dir.\</param\>

    /// \<param name="page"\>Page.\</param\>

    /// \<param name="query"\>Query.\</param\>

    /// \<param name="output"\>Output.\</param\>

    /// \<param name="host"\>Host.\</param\>

    public SimulatedHttpRequest(string appVirtualDir, string
appPhysicalDir, string page, string query, TextWriter output, string
host) : base(appVirtualDir, appPhysicalDir, page, query, output)

    {

        if(host == null || host.Length == 0)

            throw new ArgumentNullException("host", "Host cannot be null
nor empty.");

        \_host = host;

    }

 

    /// \<summary\>

    /// Gets the name of the server.

    /// \</summary\>

    /// \<returns\>\</returns\>

    public override string GetServerName()

    {

        return \_host;

    }

 

    /// \<summary\>

    /// Maps the path to a filesystem path.

    /// \</summary\>

    /// \<param name="virtualPath"\>Virtual path.\</param\>

    /// \<returns\>\</returns\>

    public override string MapPath(string virtualPath)

    {

        return Path.Combine(this.GetAppPath(), virtualPath);

    }

}

Within the `SetUp` method of my `TestFixture`, I call this method like
so...

[SetUp]

public void SetUp()

{

    \_hostName = UnitTestHelper.GenerateUniqueHost();

    UnitTestHelper.SetHttpContextWithBlogRequest(\_hostName, "MyBlog");

}

Unfortunately, this so called “lightweight” approach has its limits. Any
call in your code to `HttpContext.Currert.Request.MapPath` will throw an
exception. I tried working around this, but it looks like I’m at an
impasse. The MapPath method makes use of the
`HttpRuntime.AppDomainAppPath` property. Unfortunately, I cannot
simulate the HttpRuntime in a lightweight manner. There is a way to run
the code being tested within an HttpRuntime, but that, of course, is the
heavyweight [Cassini
method](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/PermaLink.aspx?guid=944a5284-6b8d-4366-81e8-2e241401e1b3)
mentioned above.

[Listening to: The Joint/Wavefrint - DJ Hyper - Bedrock Breaks CD1
(5:35)]

