---
layout: post
title: "I'm Going Independent!"
date: 2005-02-22 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 2168
categories: []
---
Today, my boss, the CTO, announced that I'm leaving the company to join
the adult movie industry. Don't worry, I'm actually not out to challenge
the supremacy of John Holmes. That just happens to be the typical way he
likes to announce the departure of employees. I'm just joining the
seeming [legion](http://dotAvery.com/blog/archive/2005/02/21/2542.aspx)
of developers who are going independent.

I actually gave notice two weeks ago, but I had promised not to say
anything until my company had a chance to figure out how to deliver the
news. Hence I didn't mention it on my blog. Not that any of my coworkers
read my blog (I think). But just in case, I wanted to be true to my
word.

It's funny how keeping a secret from your blog can affect how much you
write on your blog. It's as if I was worried that I'd start writing
about how Test Driven Development will save your soul and suddenly blurt
out, "oh by the way, I'm leaving my company. oops!".

The first big contract I'm working on is with my friend Micah, one of
the smartest software architects you'll meet (and you'd find that out if
he kept a damn blog. hint hint!). He's fluent in both .NET and Java
(where I'm lacking). We're hoping to also work with my friend Kyle, one
of the smartest people I know across the board. We're positioning
ourselves as Solution Architects, or as my former CEO put it, we're
"portable CTOs". I'll write up more about what that means later, but
essentially it means we'll help our clients implement the right
solution, not just sell them a solution based on a religious preference
for a particular platform or custom development when a product would do.

If you're in need of a portable CTO, software architect, grunt developer
on a project, send me an email. I'm also looking to get into process
improvement consulting etc... That's something I have a lot of
experience with that I'd like to capitalize on. This includes helping
teams get started with TDD, NUnit, Cruise Control, etc... I'm also
available for code reviews etc... Sometimes you just need an extra pair
of eyes.

In any case, I'm very excited and anxious about this big transition. Now
I'm head deep in studying tax law and health insurance policies. Wish me
luck and advice is appreciated.

