---
layout: post
title: "Hiring Is Challenging"
date: 2005-12-16 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 11351
categories: []
---
Hiring good developers is challenging. There’s a small bit of science
and a lot of art. Even when a hire is brilliant, [he or she might not
work out](http://haacked.com/archive/2005/12/16/11350.aspx). When
hiring, you don’t just want a list of experiences, technologies and
languages... You want a person who exemplifies being a self-starter
(rather than just listing it as a buzzword on the resumé) who is also
[smart and can get things
done](http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/fog0000000073.html). You’re
hiring a personality as much as a liste of skills and experiences.

One tool that I’ve found invaluable is the use of blogs. That’s how we
hired [Jon Galloway](http://weblogs.asp.net/jgalloway/) who is a total
superstar. As I told [Jeff Atwood](http://codinghorror.com/blog/)
recently in a conversation, not having a blog won’t disqualify a person
from my consideration, but it certainly helps. Otherwise I would want a
strong recommendation from someone I know and trust. I have just been
burned with bad hires too many times over the years to rely solely on a
resumé and an interview.

To make it more difficult, once you identify a superstar, you should not
be surprised if their current company pulls out all the stops to keep
them. This sort of happened recently to us, as we had another superstar
interested in working with us, but his company, unbeknowst to him, was
about to launch initiatives that addressed his major concerns. They made
a compelling counter offer and he chose to stay, though it was not a
decision made lightly. I won’t name names, but he’ll probably show his
face in here at some point.

We are happy for him, as it is a good deal, but we are also disappointed
because finding good talent is very difficult and costly. I’ve heard it
said that it can cost up to a year of a developer’s salary to locate a
good one. There is the cost in spending the time and resources to locate
someone compounded by the opportunity cost of not having the developer
currently plugging away at projects and providing value.

So in that vein, [Jon](http://weblogs.asp.net/jgalloway/) put a [job
posting](http://weblogs.asp.net/jgalloway/archive/2005/11/26/431591.aspx)
on his blog and we are still looking for one or more solid
consultants/developers to help keep an eye on me.

So if you are interested, or know someone you can whole-heartedly
recommend, please send me a resume (phil at veloc-it.net).

For those of you who have sent me resumes in the past, I apologize if I
haven’t responded. We have started to put every resume in our internal
Groove workspace so we don’t lose track of people. It’s been difficult
keeping up with everything.

