---
layout: post
title: "The Evil Post"
date: 2005-07-01 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 7462
categories: []
---
![Dr. Evil](http://haacked.com/images/DrEvil.jpg) It’s an odd quirk of
our taste for “round” numbers that we tend to celebrate milestones that
are multiples of a power of ten. For example, a 10th anniversary is
somehow more significant than a 6th anniversary. Likewise, a 100th post
is more significant than a 73rd post.

![Kim Il Jong](http://haacked.com/images/kimiljong.jpg) This post
reaches a different sort of milestone, it is my 666th post. Yes, this
post bears with it the mark of the beast. I dedicate this post to pure
eeeeevil.

![Evil Calvin](http://haacked.com/images/evilCalvin.jpg) Not having a
reputation evil, my first step is to gauge my current evil quotient via
the “[How evil are you?](http://home.att.net/~slugbutter/evil/)”
website. Unfortunately I rated quite good on the Evil-o-meter. There was
certainly work to do.

So chomped down on my Cuban cigar, fired up Internet Explorer
(evil-o-meter rising) and navigated to the [evil overload
list](http://www.eviloverlord.com/lists/overlord.html). Using
[Powerpoint](http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/11.09/ppt2.html) (+2 on
the evil-o-meter) I copied the list verbatim (DMCA anyone?) and started
committing them to memory.

After getting a bit bored, I spent a little time doing some stem cell
research and even tried my hand at human cloning. I thought about having
an abortion, but as I am male, had a tough time getting pregnant. So I
changed tactics and bought an H2 and drove it into a nature preserve
while smoking an illegal substance and drinking a forty.

At this point, I realized that to really get the evil-o-meter soaring, I
should SPAM people. Not only should I create SPAM, I should write a web
service to do so. I wrote one that [returned an ADO.NET
DataSet](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/ReturningDataSetsFromWebServicesIsTheSpawnOfSatanAndRepresentsAllThatIsTrulyEvilInTheWorld.aspx)
of email addresses and websites with comments enabled so that others
could join in the SPAMination. Soon all the world would know about all
the latest Texas Hold-Em websites.

Oh, did I mention that application is written with only one line of
code? And there are no comments. And I used HTML Tables and NO CSS. It’s
covered in Hungarian Notation. And I have promoted it as an example of
“SOA”. And the application connects to the (non-normalized) database
using the SA account without a password. I used inline sql without using
parameterized queries. Yes, Satan himself is starting to get worried
here. But then again, I personally didn’t write this code, I off-shored
it to a sweatshop in China that employs overworked six year olds to hack
out the code.

![Evil Bert](http://haacked.com/images/EvilBert.jpg) After all this hard
work, I relaxed to a game of Dungeons & Dragons while watching a little
sesame street to absorb [the evil that is
Bert](http://www.bertisevil.tv/index2.htm). This led to an internal
debate about which character is more evil, Barney or Bert?

![Evil Barney](http://haacked.com/images/evilBarney.jpg) After studying
this [mathematical proof of Barney’s
evil](http://www.geocities.com/h2lee/barney.html) and this essay, “[Why
is Barney Considered Evil](http://www.vitriol.com/barney.html)”, I
concluded that indeed, Barney is more evil.

I considered creating a [Marketing website without an RSS
feed](http://radio.weblogs.com/0001011/2005/02/19.html#a9456), but not
even I was ready to go that far.

After all that, I went back to retake the evil survey. It turns out that
I may have done a bit too much research as the site declared that I
wasn’t evil but clinically insane. Not bad for a day’s work. I wonder
what post should I dedicate to insanity?

[Listening to: Thriller - Michael Jackson - HIStory, Past, Present And
Future, Book 1 (Compilation) (Disc 1) (5:57)]

