---
layout: post
title: "Be Lazy, But Not Intellectually Lazy"
date: 2005-09-18 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 10204
categories: []
---
![Lazy](http://haacked.com/images/HomerLazy.jpg) A while ago, [Jeff
Atwood](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/) wrote about the [merits of
laziness](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/archives/000373.html) for
successful software developers. Lest this become the mantra of
sub-performing developers everywhere, I wanted to follow up with a
clarification.

It’s fine to be lazy as he describes in the article, just don’t be
intellectually lazy. What do I mean by this? First and foremost, when
you are writing code, make sure you really understand what the code is
doing. The classic illustration of mental laziness is encountering an
[off-by-one error](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Off-by-one_error).

When encountering the error, the lazy developer would simply append a “
+ 1” to the end of the stament, re-run the code, and if it seemed to
work, move on. Or they might change a “\< x” to “\<= x” For simple
cases, this may be the correct solution, but the problem arises when the
developer doesn’t take the time to evaluate why the error was made in
the first place. Sometimes, the simple fix only works for a narrow range
of inputs and masks a larger error.

This solution is merely one example of a whole class of anti-solutions I
call **“Try It and See” solutions**. The developer simply moves code
around a bit and crosses his fingers to see if it works.

Off-by-one errors are only the tip of the iceberg. This class of
anti-solutions often come up when when a developer is using a framework
such as ASP.NET in which he is unfamiliar.

On a recent project, I noticed one of the developers had put nearly all
of the page logic within the `PreRender` override. I asked the developer
why he put it there, since the proper place would have been in `OnLoad`.
He replied that `OnLoad` was too early to run that code because the
controls didn’t have their settings from the inline control declaration
within the aspx file.

Hmm, I’m pretty sure they would be there by then I told him, and he said
in his experience, they are not. So I emailed him the order of events
within the ASP.NET page lifecycle and pointed out that the method
`AddParsedSubObject` happens after the constructor and way before
`OnLoad` is called.

I believe that he did encounter a weird problem a long time ago with
control declarations not filtering through, but rather than dig into the
problem and really understand what was going on, he simply moved the
code to PreRender, saw that it worked now, and cleared his hands of the
problem.

I can understand that on a rush project, there’s a temptation to simply
try things till they work and then move on, but you will save more time
in the long run if you take a break and dig into the problem to get a
real clear understanding of what is happening.

Likewise, spend time getting up to speed on the framework you are using.
For example, ASP.NET has a usable form validation framework. Learn it.
Use it. There’s no point in wasting time writing your own framework for
validation unless you know the ASP.NET validation framework inside and
out and really need to work around its limitations. And if you are going
to write your own, consider buying a package first such as [Peter Blum’s
validation package](http://www.peterblum.com/vam/home.aspx).

So once again, be lazy, but not mentally lazy. Write unit tests up front
where they make sense. Learn the framework you are using. Understand the
code you are writing or debugging. And in the long run, you’ll be making
your life (and your coworkers lives) easier. Perhaps that’s the true
laziness.

