---
layout: post
title: "Admitting Your Addiction Is The First Step"
date: 2006-05-11 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 12747
categories: []
---
I once thought I was a bit of a blogging addict. To get settled into
work I would read my blogs. I’d tune back in while eating my lunch. And
if I went on vacation, I thought about the huge number of unread feeds.
Heck, I even went and got involved in [RSS
Bandit](http://www.rssbandit.org/ "RSS aggregator") and
[Subtext](http://subtextproject.com/ "Subtext Project Website") so that
I could work on the means of delivering blogs.

![Oblivion Box](http://haacked.com/images/oblivion.jpg) But now I
realized that my blogging addiction is merely the mild craving for milk
after a cookie. I have discovered what true addiction is, and its name
is **Oblivion**.

[Steve Yegge was
right](http://steve-yegge.blogspot.com/2006/05/oblivion.html "Stevey's Blog Rants")
when he says...

> ...if you’re not playing Oblivion, then I highly, nay *strongly*
> recommend that you don’t start, or you’ll suddenly develop an aversion
> to Real Life...

This is quite simply the best computer game I have ever had the pleasure
to play. I remember spending hours as a kid playing such classics as the
Phantasie, Ultima III, Ultima IV, The Bard’s Tale and Dungeon Master.
Dungeon Master at the time elevated the FRPG genre for me because it was
the first that really incorporated first person realtime playing. But I
remember drawing up plans for the ultimate game. Apparently Bethesda
swiped those plans from my brain and decided to do even better.

So why is this game so damn addicting? It is a combination of a lot of
things really. First, the skill based system really seems to mean
something. I remember there was never a point in playing a thief in most
role playing games because you would just get killed first. Most games
were simply hack and slash fight your way out of every situation.

![Oblivion Screenshot](http://haacked.com/images/oblivionScreen.jpg) But
with Oblivion, you have the opportunity to really put those sneaking and
lockpicking skills to good use in daring missions where simply blasting
your way through really isn’t a good option. I also like the fact that
lock-picking isn’t simply rolling a die and comparing it to a skill
(though you can resort to that option). You have the ability to actually
try and pick that lock.

If there were no other characters in the game, it would be like Myst,
but with the ability to fully explore your environment. The scenery in
this game is jaw dropping.

But ultimately, I think the open-ended gameplay really kicks it up a
notch. After a short stint as a gladiator (got my ass handed to me) my
character is now working his way up the Thieves guild and trying to
advance in the Mage’s guild. At the beginning of the game, some
important Emporer got shanked and I am supposed to deliver his amulet
somewhere, but I sort of got sidetracked.

Now I am travelling around, checking out the scenery, and getting way
too little sleep. I suppose I should look into delivering this amulet,
but first I have some pilfered goods to fence off and I want to help
this half-orc reclaim his heritage.

