---
layout: post
title: "Removing The Comment Spam Incentive"
date: 2006-08-28 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 16136
categories: []
---
The other tactic I neglected to mention in my [previous
post](http://haacked.com/archive/2006/08/29/Comment_Spam_Heuristics.aspx) on
combatting comment spam is more big picture.  **How do we remove the
incentive for spammers to comment spam in the first place?**

Apparently the [rel="nofollow"
approach](http://haacked.com/archive/2005/01/20/1944.aspx) has done
little to curb comment spammers despite many predictions (including my
own).  I still think it is an important step in removing one incentive,
but what else can be done to remove this incentive?

With the lack of results from the rel="nofollow" approach, the lesson we
learn is that either the incentive for comment spam isn’t necessarily
Google rankings or that there are enough unpatched blogs out in the wild
that it still does help the google rank to post comments
indiscriminately.  Or both.

If a spam commenter can put a link in the comments of several thousand
blogs, then certainly that translates to tens to hundreds of thousands
of eyeballs on that link, and maybe a few hundred clickthroughs (yes,
I’m pulling these numbers out of my rear).  When someone clicks through,
the spammer gets paid a small amount from the owner of the site.

Warning, here is where I go off the deep end in brainstorming
solutions.  Forgive my naivete.

What if the marketers who pay for these links to be spread around found
out that comment spammers were creating negative feelings for their
products by posting comments on sites that were vehemently against
having these advertisements.  Would they care?  Would they be interested
in not paying for click throughs from sites who have specifically
opted-out of such links? 

I’m probably dreaming here, but stay with me for a moment as I flesh out
a quick thought experiment.  Suppose these sites did care.  One option
is for them to not pay for links that originate from sites that
specifically opt-out of comment advertising.  For example, by
registering with some central opt-out site.

Another approach would be for sites that receive click-throughs to
initiate a trackback like mechanism in which they request a comment spam
policy from the blog.  If the blog does not explicitely endorse their
product, the link does not get paid.

Of course the big flaw in this experiment is that these sites probably
do not care and wouldn't go to the trouble to implement these approaches
to being a good citizen.  They just want the links to come in.  Even
negative publicity is good publicity.  So what can we do? Is there a way
to make them care? Is there a way to make comment spam less lucrative?

