---
layout: post
title: "Soccer Camp"
date: 2006-12-22 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 18178
categories: [personal]
---
No, this was definitely not a good sight for me. With my team pressing
the attack, an unfortunate turnover left our defense out of position to
help as the opposing team quickly capitalized.[![Ezra and
Me](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/SoccerCamp_12AE5/050_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/SoccerCamp_12AE5/050%5B2%5D.jpg)
(*Click on any pic for a larger view*).

Squinting toward the sun, I saw 6’ 3" [Ezra
Hendrickson](http://soccernet.espn.go.com/players/stats?id=36437&cc=5901 "Ezra Hendrickson")
of the Columbus Crew barreling towards me, the last man back on defense.
Fortunately his midfielder’s cross was a bit too long, allowing me to
pluck it out of Ezra’s path.

With Ezra backtracking towards me attempting to regain the attack, I
looked up for a midfielder to distribute the ball to, finding
[Preki](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Preki "Preki on Wikipedia"), former
U.S. National team player, ready to receive the pass and orchestrate the
counterattack.

[![Jerseys](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/SoccerCamp_12AE5/028_thumb%5B1%5D.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/SoccerCamp_12AE5/028%5B3%5D.jpg)
Might sound like a soccer lover’s wet dream, but this is just a small
snippet of what I’ve been up to this past week. I attended the [Los
Angeles Galaxy’s Adult Fantasy Soccer
Camp](http://web.mlsnet.com/t106/fans/events/adult_fantasy_camp/ "Galaxy Fantasy Camp").

Yeah, the name is a bit snicker-worthy (*Adult Fantasy Camp, heh-heh
heh-heh?*), but such camps are common for other sports such as baseball
and basketball. It’s an opportunity for soccer lovers to get a taste of
the pro treatment.

For me, it was four straight days of heaven. Two practices a day with
former and current Galaxy coaches. Expert guidance from fitness trainers
from the company who [Jürgen
Klinsmann](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/J%C3%BCrgen_Klinsmann "Jürgen Klinsmann")
selected to work with the German National team. Guest appearances from
several soccer celebrities (though three of them happen to be in my
[soccer
league](http://eteamz.active.com/olympicsl/index.cfm? "Olympic Soccer League")).

[![The
Lounge](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/SoccerCamp_12AE5/035_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/SoccerCamp_12AE5/035%5B2%5D.jpg)
The camp was held at the Home Depot Center, the home of the Los Angeles
Galaxy. We used the same facilities they use, including their lockers,
their training fields, and their lounge (seen here at right).

When I first arrived, my locker had two kits neatly displayed in my
locker. An away jersey and a practice jersey. You can see my jersey in
the picture below right.

[![Haack,
\#8](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/SoccerCamp_12AE5/027_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/SoccerCamp_12AE5/027%5B2%5D.jpg)
Each day started with a morning session which commenced with a warmup
lead by an instructor from [Athelete’s
Performance](http://www.athletesperformance.com/ "Athlete’s Performance").
I particularly appreciated their philosophy against static stretching
before exercise as it can decrease performance. Instead, athletes get a
stretch by working through the natural range of motions in various
warm-up exercises. Static stretching is great for after workouts.

Afterwards, we ran through various drills and small sided games led by
the expert coaches. The afternoon sessions focused more on actual
playing and tactics, with the occasional shooting and defensive drill
thrown in.

For the most part, the other participants were a diverse group, but the
soccer community is a small world in Los Angeles. Four other
participants were current or former teammates of mine.

[![Max, Me, and
Donny](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/SoccerCamp_12AE5/034_thumb%5B1%5D.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/SoccerCamp_12AE5/034%5B3%5D.jpg)[![Schrizz,
Joaquin, and
Mateo](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/SoccerCamp_12AE5/052_thumb%5B1%5D.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/SoccerCamp_12AE5/052%5B3%5D.jpg)

The *Grand Finale* of the camp is a full field game with professional
MLS referees between two teams chosen by the coaches. On the penultimate
day, I noticed the two coaches hunched over their notes furiously
picking teams and making trades between the two of them. For the
coaches, this was a matter of pride to see who could pick and coach the
better team.

The morning of match day, they revealed the lineup, but did not reveal
the *allocations* (marquee players to be announced) until lunchtime. The
other team received a current pro and a former college player. We
received a former college player, our second allocation not able to make
it.

Fortunately, our coach is quite shrewd and happened to run into Preki
who was there to interview for the Chivas coaching job. After his
interview, he was happy to come out and play one half with us.

The coach gave me a decisision to make, would I stay in the attacking
midfield, or reliquish the spot to Preki. That, my friends, is a
no-brainer. With a player of that caliber around, I moved back to
central defense, ready to get my Beckenbauer (actual compliment from a
teammate after the game).

Although I felt we were the superior team, we ended up tying the match 3
to 3. A disappointing result considering how much we possesed the ball.
Our last shot of the game nicked the post, almost giving us a game
winner at the last second.

My friend Donny filmed much of the camp and will be putting together a
video for the MLS. Being his carpool partner, it’ll have a lot of me in
it. ;) If you’re a soccer lover in or near Los Angeles, I totally
recommend this camp next year.

