---
layout: post
title: "A Day Without Immigrants"
date: 2006-05-01 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 12614
categories: []
---
Downtown Los Angeles experienced a huge march today to protest bill [HR
4437](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HR_4437 "Bill HR 4437") and support
immigrant rights and immigration reforms. I had been waffling about
attending since I really hate driving to downtown (bad traffic and
parking), but realized that since both my mother and my wife are
immigrants, I ought to come out and show some support. An IM from my
friend Kyle telling me I won’t regret it also served to jolt me out of
my complacency.

[![Marching](http://static.flickr.com/49/138583644_7ada5c0bc5.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/haacked/138583644/ "Photo Sharing")

Besides, my wife works on the corner where the march starts so I could
just park nearby, have lunch with her, and join in the march. So I
hopped in my car, grabbed a white shirt for my wife (everyone was
encouraged to wear white), and headed off to downtown. Traffic was
actually better than I have ever seen it on the 10 East.

When I arrived, I was greeted with the sounds of helicopters hovering
overhead and people cheering. I was then assaulted by the smell of
street vendor cooking in the air which instantly made me hungry and
ready to part with some money despite the boycott. I proceeded to walk
right through the parade in order to get to Akumi’s office.

Once there, I ran up to the roof to take some photos.

[![View from the roof of Akumi's
building](http://static.flickr.com/53/138583786_b0aa167bd9.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/haacked/138583786/ "Photo Sharing")

[![There are a lot of
people](http://static.flickr.com/52/138583931_7fb78ef3a7.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/haacked/138583931/ "Photo Sharing")

The photos from the roof do not even begin to give you a sense of how
many people were there. Multiple city blocks were chock full of people
chanting, singing, and dancing. The air was electric.

[![Can somebody tell me where the march
is?](http://static.flickr.com/53/138584570_5ad680a23e.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/haacked/138584570/ "Photo Sharing")

Even the little ones were into it.

[![A proud
American](http://static.flickr.com/56/138584994_baa9f6bf93.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/haacked/138584994/ "Photo Sharing")

Though this one was tuckered out.

[![Sleepy
Protester](http://static.flickr.com/56/138585591_c4ceb1cf5d.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/haacked/138585591/ "Photo Sharing")

The crowd was primarily latino. I had hoped to see a more diverse crowd
show up in support, but I did manage to find the one other white guy.

[![Me and the one other white
guy](http://static.flickr.com/50/138585852_38d3995f78.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/haacked/138585852/ "Photo Sharing")

We took a shortcut to the end point of the march where everyone was
gathering, but didn’t feel like braving the crowds much longer.

[![Rally](http://static.flickr.com/46/138586490_61d126c584.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/haacked/138586490/ "Photo Sharing")

I stepped aside for a moment to get a better view for a picture and when
I looked back, I could not see my wife. Since everyone was wearing
white, it was easy for me to lose track of her. What was I going to do?
Ask everyone if they’ve seen a woman wearing a white shirt, blue jeans,
with black hair? That described half the entire crowd. It was a
beautiful day out there.

UPDATE: I forgot to place a link to my [photoset on
Flickr](http://www.flickr.com/photos/haacked/sets/72057594122450573/ "Day Without Immigrants Photoset").
This contains more pictures that I took.

