---
layout: post
title: "Negative Base Numbering Systems"
date: 2006-05-01 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 12617
categories: []
---
UPDATE: I updated the article a bit to better explain decimal expansion
to negabinary

Ok, here is where I go and really geek out a bit. Scott presents a
[simple
javascript](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/MakingNegativeNumbersTurnRedUsingCSSAndJavascript.aspx "Making Negative Numbers Turn Red")
to display negative numbers as red. He takes a nice clean
straightforward approach by using javascript to inject a CSS class on
specific elements that have a negative number.

As his script merrily iterates its way through the page’s elements, it
checks the values of the element to see if the first character is a “-”
(dash). And this works just fine for the majority of you people so
thoroughly stuck on the “decimal” system.

But as I pointed out in his comments, this discriminates against
negative base numbering systems such as ...drumroll... **Negabinary**!

*Doesn’t negabinary sound like one in a long string of major villains to
attack Godzilla and end up destroying Tokyo yet again?*

Negabinary is a lot like binary’s evil twin. **Rather than a base 2
system, negabinary is base -2**. The beauty of negabinary is that there
is no need for a negative sign (aka the sign bit). All integers,
negative or positive, can be written as an unsigned stream of 1s and 0s.

To expand a decimal number into negabinary, you simply divide the number
by -2 repeatedly. Each time you divide the number, you record the
non-negative remainder of 0 or 1. Afterwards, you take those remainders
in reverse order and there you have it, the negabinary expansion. Simple
no?

Keep in mind that we are doing remainder division here. So -1/-2 is not
one half, but 0 remainder 1. Likewise, 1/-2 is 1 remainder 1.

Huh?

**Keep in mind this simple algerbraic formula: if a / b = c remainder d,
then bc + d = a.**

Thus, to expand decimal 2 in negabinary:

     2 / -2 = -1 remainder 0
    -1 / -2 =  1 remainder 1
     1 / -2 =  0 remainder 1

Taking those remainders in reverse order we get 110. So 110 is the
negabinary representation of decimal 2.

I remember learning that there were computing systems built (perhaps
experimental) that used negabinary instead of binary. Apparently there
are benefits to representing a number without a signed bit.
Unfortunately, like a good evil twin, negabinary makes arithmetic
operations quite complicated.

I was going to write up a whole exposé on negabinary, but the Wikipedia
did a [much better
job](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Negabinary "Negabinary") than I would
have. My memory of my college math lectures on alternate numbering
system is pretty hazy. Throughout history, humans have tried out various
numbering systems other than base 10. The Mayans used some sort of
hybrid of base 20 and base 360. I kid you not.

So with a small alteration, we can adjust Scott’s script to accomodate
negabinary enthusiasts.

