---
layout: post
title: "My New Personal Blog"
date: 2006-09-14 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 16611
categories: []
---
I found out recently that many of my family members and friends who used
to read my blog stopped doing so because most of my blog posts were pure
gibberish to them.  Apparently not everyone is fascinated by topics such
as how many [CPU cycles it takes to make a method
call](http://smallthought.com/avi/?p=16) in a dynamic language?  Neither
are they enthralled by matching [HTML with Regular
Expressions](http://haacked.com/archive/2005/04/22/2784.aspx).  Go
figure.

[![Soccer
Injury](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MyNewPersonalBlog_11846/dsc01408_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MyNewPersonalBlog_11846/dsc014082.jpg)And
yes, I have tried in the past to explain that my blog has categories and
by going to the **[Day to Day
category](http://haacked.com/category/1.aspx), you can filter out my
geekery.  But many of my friends simply bookmark
[http://haacked.com/](http://haacked.com/) and simply can’t be
bothered. 

So I am starting a new blog just for them where I can post such personal
things such as a picture of this vicious bruise I received in a soccer
game which was actually *worse* than it looks.

In the past, I’ve tended to have the philosophy of just writing about
anything here.  But these days, I’ve migrated to seeing blogging as
[participating in a
community](http://www.acmebinary.com/blogs/kent/archive/2006/09/04/811.aspx).
In my case, I have focused this blog to participate in the Software
Development community, and more specifically the .NET developer
community.  As they say about writing, *consider your
audience!*  However I don’t think this some absolute truth of blogging.
If you want to post pics of your cats in your geek blog, post away! 
This is just my preference for myself.

This also doesn’t mean that haacked.com will only consist of techie
posts.  I’ll still post the occasional personal item that I think might
be interesting to my geek friends.  I rather like injecting my
personality here. 

What I probably won’t do is post mundane stuff like, “Yo Dan. You and
Judy want to have dinner tonight?  Call me or post a comment here.”
here, reserving that for my other blog.

The URL for my other blog is
[http://phil.haacked.com/](http://phil.haacked.com/).

