---
layout: post
title: "Mile High Overview Of Subtext Skinning"
date: 2006-08-26 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 16091
categories: [subtext,open source]
---
In my [previous
post](http://haacked.com/archive/2006/08/26/Subtext_Skinning_Changes.aspx "Subtext Skinning Changes"),
I outlined some minor changes to the skinning model for Subtext. In this
post, I will give a high level overview of how skinning works in
Subtext.

Subtext renders a *Skin* by combining a set of CSS stylesheets with a
set of *.ascx* controls located in a specific skin folder.  If you look
in the *Skins* directory for example, you might see a set of folders
like this.

![Subtext Skin
Folders.](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/790894a9b369_B541/SubtextSkinFolders4.png)

Skin Template
-------------

A common misperception is that each folder represents a *Skin*.  In
fact, each folder represents something we call a *Skin Template*, and
can be used to render multiple skins.  One way to think of it is that
each folder contains a *family of skins*.

Each folder contains a series of *.ascx* controls used to render each
skin in that skin family as well as some CSS stylesheets and images used
for individual skins or for the entire family.

For example, the *Redbook* template folder contains three skins,
*Redbook*, *BlueBook*, and *GreenBook*.  In the screenshot below, we can
see that there are three CSS stylesheets that specifically correspond to
these three skins.  How does Subtext know that these three stylsheets
define three different skins while the other stylesheets in this folder
do not?

![Redbook
Folder](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/790894a9b369_B541/redbook.png)

The answer is that this is defined within the `Skins.config` file.

Skins.config
------------

The `Skins.config` file is located in the *Admin* directory and contains
an XML definition for every skin.  Here is a snippet of the file
containing the definition for the *Redbook* family of skins. This
snippet shows the definition of the *BlueBook* skin.

```csharp
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<SkinTemplates  xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema" 
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
  <Skins>
    <SkinTemplate Name="BlueBook" 
                  TemplateFolder="RedBook" 
                  StyleSheet="Blue.css">
      <Scripts>
        <Script Src="~/Admin/Resources/Scripts/niceForms.js" />
      </Scripts>
      <Styles>
        <Style href="~/skins/_System/csharp.css" />
        <Style href="~/skins/_System/commonstyle.css" />
        <Style href="~/skins/_System/commonlayout.css" />
        <Style href="niceforms-default.css" />
        <Style href="print.css" media="print" />
        </Styles>
    </SkinTemplate>
  </Skins>
</SkinTemplates>
```

There is a `SkinTemplate` node for each *Skin* within the system (I
know, not quite consistent now that I think of it. Should probably be
named `Skin`). 

The `Name` attribute defines the name of this particular skin. 

The `TemplateFolder` attribute specifies the physical skin template
folder in which the all the ascx controls and images are located in. 

The **`StyleSheet`** attribute specifies which stylesheet defines the
primary CSS stylesheet for this skin. 

For example, the *GreenBook* skin definition looks just like the
*BlueBook* skin definition except that the `StyleSheet` attribute
references *Green.css* instead of *Blue.css*.

Within the `SkinTemplate` node is a collection of `Script` nodes and a
collection of `Style` nodes.  These specify any client scripts (such as
Javascript) and other CSS files that should be included when rendering
this skin.  As you can see, the tilde (\~) syntax works for specifying a
path to a file and a developer can specify a media and a conditional for
each CSS stylesheet.

Controls
--------

I keep mentioning that Subtext depends on a collection of *.ascx* user
controls when it renders a family of skins. Let’s talk about them for a
moment. 

In the second screenshot above, you may have noticed a directory named
*Controls*.  This contains the bulk of the *.ascx* controls used to
render a specific skin.  There was also a control named
*PageTemplate.ascx* in the parent directory.

![The
Controls](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/790894a9b369_B541/SNAG00234.png)

Each skin in a family of skins is rendered by the same set of
`UserControl` instances.  The only difference between two skins within
the same family is the CSS stylesheet used (which can account for quite
a difference as we learn from CSS Zen Garden).

The PageTemplate.ascx control defines the overall template for a skin,
and then each of these user controls in the *Controls* directory is
responsible for archiving a specific portion of the blog.

Select a different skin from another skin family, and Subtext will load
in a completely different set of `UserControl` files, that all follow
the same naming convention.

Drawbacks and Future Direction
------------------------------

This is one of the drawbacks to the current implementation.  For
example, rather than using data binding syntax, each *.ascx* file is
required to define certain `WebControl` instances with specific IDs. 
The underlying Subtext code then performs a `FindControl` searching for
these specific controls and sets their values in order to populate
them.  This naming convention is often the most confusing part of
implementing a new skin for developers.

It used to be that if a `WebControl` was removed from an .ascx file
(perhaps you didn’t want to display a particular piece of information),
this would cause an exception as Subtext could not find that control.
We’ve tried to remedy that as much as possible.

In the future, we hope to implement a more flexible `MasterPage` based
approach in which the underlying code provides a rich data source and
each skin can bind to whichever data it wishes to display via data
binding syntax.

From a software perspective, this changes the dependency arrow in the
opposite direction.  Rather than the underlying code having to know
exactly which controls a skin must provide, it will simply provide data
and it is up to the individual skin to pick and choose which data it
wishes to bind to.

Conclusion
----------

We provided the *Naked* skin so that developers creating custom skins
could play around with an absolutely bare-bone skin and see just how
each of the controls participates in rendering a blog.

tags: [Subtext](http://technorati.com/tag/Subtext),
[Skins](http://technorati.com/tag/Skins),
[Skinning](http://technorati.com/tag/Skinning),
[Blogs](http://technorati.com/tag/Blogs)

