---
layout: post
title: "Travels"
date: 2006-09-04 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 16308
categories: []
---
[![Scenery](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/Travels_14EF5/dsc01431_edited_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/Travels_14EF5/dsc01431_edited6.jpg)This
past weekend my wife and I drove up to San Francisco to attend a
friend’s wedding, which ended up being a lot of fun.  We always like
visiting *The City* because of the many friends we have in the area,
though being there reinforces the fact that it is not a place where we’d
want to live (no offense to anybody who lives there, it’s just not our
style).

While up there we were fortunate enough to have dinner with [Mr. Coding
Horror Jeff Atwood](http://codinghorror.com/blog/) and his wonderful
wife.

They gave us a tour of their new place and I was most impressed with his
“boom boom” room (it’s his term and it’s not what you think).  They have
a separated room tricked out with surround sound THX speakers, an LCD
Projector, a Play Station 2, Dance Dance Revolution game pads, and of
course, [Guitar
Hero](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/archives/000437.html).  Jeff gave
us a quick demo of Guitar Hero and I was quite impressed, both by the
fact that Jeff has some rhythm as well as the graphics and sound of the
game.

[![San
francisco](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/Travels_14EF5/dsc01414_edited_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/Travels_14EF5/dsc01414_edited6.jpg)In
some ways, the *boom boom* room reminded me of Ricky Shroder’s room from
[Silver Spoons](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silver_Spoons).

Meanwhile, my brother is moving from Alaska to Minnesota, but he’s doing
it the hard way, **driving**.  He drove down to Los Angeles from
Anchorage, Alaska at a relatively leisurely pace visiting with friends
along the way.

He will stay with us for a couple of days and then he and I will set out
to drive to Minnesota.  My parents are such worriers so it made them
feel better that I was driving with him for this leg of the trip since
he won’t be stopping much.

Hopefully we’ll get there with enough time to visit some relative we
have in the area.  In any case, if I am less than responsive to emails
and Subtext mailing list/forums, you’ll know why.

