---
layout: post
title: "Bringing Back The 40-hour Workweek"
date: 2006-01-05 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 11417
categories: []
---
These days it seems that the 40-hour workweek is a pipe dream of of a
bygone past (if it ever was a reality). This seems especially true for
the field of software development which seems to glorify working
excessively long hours like an [old fashioned pissing
match](http://minimsft.blogspot.com/2005/12/comment-report-markl-nee-of-microsoft.html).

It is pretty well documented that working long hours can end up being
counter-productive. After working for a prolonged stretch, workers tend
to get fatigued and the law of diminishing returns kicks in. I read of
one study that demonstrates how productivity steeply declines in the
45th to the 50th hour. In my opinion, this is especially true for
software development as code written in the wee hours of a marathon
session tend to produce more work in the long run due to bugs. That gets
budgeted elsewhere.

Software developers and management just don’t keep track of the real
productivity numbers. They’ll remember that you got the code completed
by the deadline via marathon sessions, but they won’t factor in the time
spent debugging and fixing bugs found weeks later due to that session.

Not to mention the negative impact on employees relationships and
physical health. It’s no wonder that a common new years resolution among
developers was to get in better shape.

So I find it fitting that my friend Kyle sends me this article written
by Joe Robinson, author of “Work to Live”. The title of it is “[Bring
back the 40-hour workweek -- and let us take a long
vacation](http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/sunday/editorials/la-op-robinson1jan01,0,1744623.story?coll=la-home-sunday-opinion)”

I’ve [written about work-life balance
before](http://haacked.com/archive/2004/10/16/1376.aspx), but I should
make clear before anyone gets the wrong idea that desiring work-life
balance does not make one a slacker. Unfortunately I have been having
trouble personally applying this philosophy since I started a company,
but as an owner, every extra hour benefits me. For many salaried
employees, creating an environment where the bravado of working long
hours is encouraged, primarily appears to benefit your corporate masters
(unless you are paid in overtime etc...).

So for this year, make your resolution to work less and live more
(unless you really are a slacker in which case you should get off your
lazy butt). Spend more time getting into shape and other hobbies you
enjoy. If all you want to do is code, spend that extra time contributing
to an open source project. You might learn something that helps keep you
competitive.

