---
layout: post
title: "What Happens At Conferences In Vegas Do Not Stay In Vegas"
date: 2007-11-10 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 18419
categories: []
---
Last week I was busy in Las Vegas at the DevConnections/OpenForce
conferences, and unlike that pithy but over-used catch-phrase, what
happens at a conference in Vegas should definitely *not* stay in Vegas
but should be blogged (*only things during sessions that won’t get
anyone in trouble*).

It was my first time at DevConnections and I was not disappointed. This
was also a first ever OpenForce conference put on by the DotNetNuke
corporation and from all appearances, it was quite a success.

[![Carl Franklin and Rob
Conery](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/WhatHappensAtDevConnectionsandOpenForceD_602/IMG_0801_thumb_1.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/WhatHappensAtDevConnectionsandOpenForceD_602/IMG_0801_2.jpg)
[![Rob Conery and Rick
Strahl](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/WhatHappensAtDevConnectionsandOpenForceD_602/IMG_0804_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/WhatHappensAtDevConnectionsandOpenForceD_602/IMG_0804.jpg)

The first night, as I passed by the hotel bar, I noticed [Carl
Franklin](http://www.intellectualhedonism.com/ "Carl Franklin"), well
known for [.NET Rocks](http://www.dotnetrocks.com/ ".NET Rocks"), a
podcast on .NET technologies. As I [had an
appearance](http://haacked.com/archive/2007/08/07/my-.net-rocks-interview-is-now-up.aspx "My .NET Rocks Interview")
on the show, it was nice to finally meet the guy in person.

Also met up with the Flyin' Hawaiians, [Rob
Conery](http://blog.wekeroad.com/ "Rob Conery's Blog") (from Kauai) and
[Rick Strahl](http://www.west-wind.com/weblog/ "Rick Strahl") (from
Maui).

This is a big part of the value and fun in such conferences. The
back-channel conversations on various topics that provide new insights
you might not have otherwise received.

The next day, I attended the ASP.NET MVC talk given by [Scott
Hanselman](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/ "Scott Hanselman") and [Eilon
Lipton](http://weblogs.asp.net/leftslipper/ "Eilon Lipton"). The talk
was well attended for a technology in which there are no CTP bits
available yet. There were quite a few who stuck around to ask questions.
I also attended their next talk that was part 3 of 3 in a series in
which [Scott Guthrie](http://weblogs.asp.net/scottgu "Scott Guthrie")
gave the first two parts.

Scott and Eilon are like the Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis of conference
talks (I won’t say which is which). They play off each other quite well
in giving a humorous, but informative, talk.

The best part for me was watching Eilon squirm as a star-struck attendee
asked to have her picture taken with him after having done the same with
Scott Hanselman. I think we expect this sort of geek-worship with Scott,
but Eilon seemed genuinely uncomfortable. She was quite excited to get a
pic with the guy who wrote**the `UpdatePanel`!

[![An admirer gazes at
Scott](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/WhatHappensAtDevConnectionsandOpenForceD_602/IMG_0805_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/WhatHappensAtDevConnectionsandOpenForceD_602/IMG_0805.jpg)
[![An admirer gazes at
Eilon](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/WhatHappensAtDevConnectionsandOpenForceD_602/IMG_0811_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/WhatHappensAtDevConnectionsandOpenForceD_602/IMG_0811.jpg)

One particular experience that was particularly fun for me was that I
got to go around the exhibitor floor, camera-man in tow, to interview
attendees about their impressions of the conference. Normally such work
goes to charismatic and well-spoken guys like Carl Franklin and Scott
Hanselman, but both were too busy at the time and Scott pointed the
cameraman to me.

I try to remain open to new experiences, even ones that take me out of
my comfort zone (I have stage fright). I walked around with a microphone
interviewing people and saw that the attendees really love this
conference and felt they got a lot out of it. At least the ones willing
to talk about it on camera. ;)

When asked what their favorite talk was, a couple [attendees mentioned
the MVC
talk](http://geekswithblogs.net/robz/archive/2007/11/07/DevConnections---MVC-Framework-for-ASP.NET.aspx "DevConnections MVC Framework"),
which was good to hear.

[![IMG\_0818](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/WhatHappensAtDevConnectionsandOpenForceD_602/IMG_0818_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/WhatHappensAtDevConnectionsandOpenForceD_602/IMG_0818.jpg)
[![IMG\_0820](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/WhatHappensAtDevConnectionsandOpenForceD_602/IMG_0820_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/WhatHappensAtDevConnectionsandOpenForceD_602/IMG_0820.jpg)

While on the floor, they had a drawing in which they gave out a Harley.
The winner happened to be a Harley-loving motorcycle rider, so it worked
out pretty well.

On Wednesday and Thursday, I participated on two panels for the
OpenForce conference on the topic of Open Source. They taped these
panels so hopefully the videos will be up soon. I’ll write more about
what we discussed later. I need to get some sleep as after leaving
Vegas, I flew out the next day to Redmond and it is very late.

Technorati Tags:
[DevConnections](http://technorati.com/tags/DevConnections),[OpenForce](http://technorati.com/tags/OpenForce)

