---
layout: post
title: "Open Source Programming Language Zeitgeist"
date: 2007-03-22 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 18257
categories: []
---
When searching for source code in a particular language, what do the
words being searched on tell you about that language?

Koders.com publishes an interesting [Open Source
Zeitgeist](http://www.koders.com/rubyreport.aspx "Ruby Report") which
focuses on search trends and patterns within open source code. This is
very similar to [Google’s
Zeitgeist](http://www.google.com/press/zeitgeist.html "Search patterns and trends"),
but grouped by programming language and specific to open source code.
This might help us gain some insight into answering the above question.

For example, compare this screenshot of the top Ruby, Java, and C\#
searches.

![Top Java Searches - 1. md5, 2.swing,
3.java](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/OpenSourceProgrammingLanguageZeitgeist_14D30/image%7B0%7D%5B19%5D.png)![Top
C\# Searches 1.system, 2.dataset,
3.openforecast](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/OpenSourceProgrammingLanguageZeitgeist_14D30/image%7B0%7D%5B20%5D.png)
![Top Ruby Searches 1. proxy, 2.file,
3.socket](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/OpenSourceProgrammingLanguageZeitgeist_14D30/image%7B0%7D%5B18%5D.png)
![Top PHP Searches 1. None, 2. excel,
3.mail](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/OpenSourceProgrammingLanguageZeitgeist_14D30/image%7B0%7D%5B25%5D.png)

It’s hard to draw any conclusive conclusions based on this sample, but
let me offer a few uninformed thoughts, and you can tell me how off-base
I am.

Someone suggested that **you sort of get a sense of the maturity of a
language by the terms being searched**. I can kind of see that if
I define *maturity* in this case to mean how well the general developer
community within this language understands the features of the
particular language.

The idea is that if a language has been around for a long time, there
might not be as many searches on basic language features and more
searches that appear to be task focused, or at least on esoteric
features of the language. I admit, I’m not exactly convinced. Is this
true? Let’s take a look.

Take Ruby for example. Even though it’s been around as long as Java, it
is only recently (past few years) that it has had a huge surge in
popularity. Thus, many of the top search terms seem focused on
programming constructs such as *proxy*, *file*, *socket, and thread*.
This might reflect the large number of people just learning their way
around the language.

**Then again, Ruby developers are also searching on terms such as
*rails, controller, activerecord.* These are mature software development
concepts.**

Whereas Java, which arguably is more mature and has a much larger
community, the top terms are slightly more esoteric (*md5, swing, tree*)
or just vain. *Java developers search for "java" when searching Java
code? How many search results does that produce?*However, also in the
top are the terms *string* and *file*. That makes sense since
even though Java is mature, there are still lots of new Java developers.

**What’s really interesting to me is the inclusion of "Hibernate" as
number 10 in the Java results.**

**Contrast this to C\# where It does not surprise me that *dataset* is
number 2 for C\#.** It’s the workhorse for the RAD developer. It appears
that in pure numbers, the DataSet is winning over OR/M and such. There
are no search results for *activerecord*, *NHibernate*, *Subsonic*,
*OR/M*, etc... Whether that is a sad thing or not I leave for a
subsequent flame war.

What’s interesting to me is that PHP seems really focused on the domain.
Being unfamiliar with PHP, I could totally be wrong, but with search
terms like *excel, mail,* and *forum*, that’s the impression I get.

Sort of makes sense that an old established widely used scripting
language would have its basic features already understood. Though I have
no idea why the top search term would be *none*. **Are PHP programmers
nihilistic?**

In any case, many of you are thinking I’m drawing too many conclusions
from too little data. You are absolutely correct. This is mere idle
speculation already colored by preconceived notions.

However, I do find it interesting to look at these results and ask,
**what *do* they say about these languages and their users?**

