---
layout: post
title: "Leaving Las Vegas With Software Consulting Ethics Intact"
date: 2007-06-18 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 18355
categories: []
---
What would you do if you found out that a project you were working on
was going to be used in an unethical or illegal manner?

This is the sort of question that K. Scott Allen asks via a
[hypothetical scenario he
proposes](http://odetocode.com/Blogs/scott/archive/2007/06/17/10978.aspx "The Main Monkey Business").
At least I hope it’s hypothetical. Scott, is there something you want to
confess? ;)

While his situation is hypothetical, **I think enough time has passed
for me to tell you about a real situation I had the *pleasure* of
dealing with
at**[**VelocIT**](http://veloc-it.com/ "Veloc-IT - We Get IT Done").
Some of the minor details have been changed to protect the guilty.

This story starts a couple of years ago in the primordial days
of VelocIT. Like many bright-eyed start-ups, spirits were high, but cash
flow was low. We were hurting for more clients.

So it seemed providence smiled on us when I received an email from a
former coworker who was employed by a gaming company in Las Vegas.

![vegas](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MyFirstFathersDay_14DB0/vegas_1.jpg)

Because of my background in online and mobile gaming, he was interested
in hiring me, via VelocIT, to help build out the back-end server
infrastructure for their upcoming multi-player mobile gaming platform.

His company flies [Micah Dylan](http://micahdylan.com/ "Micah Dylan")
(our CEO) and me out to Las Vegas where we have some meetings to go over
requirements during the day. In the evening, we head out for a few (ok
many) drinks and dancing at a club. He eyes a woman he goes gaga for,
but won’t approach because she’s “out of my league”.

I tell him that “league” is a frame of mind and nobody is out of his
league unless he believes they are. I proceed to play wingman and
approach her, strike up a conversation, then conveniently introduce her
to “my friend” who happened to have conveniently just returned with our
drinks.

**It’s client engagement management in true Vegas fashion.**

At this point, I’m feeling pretty good about my sales skills and feel I
did a pretty bang up job in sealing the deal. We talk a week later and
this guy is dating the girl from the bar! Sure enough, he wants to work
with us, but there’s this small eensy weensy tiny little problem. His
budget is a fraction of our estimate.

But he has a solution!

He wants to pay us \$20,000 US to have a group of Eastern Europeans do
the work. To clarify I call him back and ask,

> So you want to pay us to manage the offshore team? We can do that.

He clarifies. He’ll pay us \$40K and we’ll turn around and hire some
Eastern Europeans through him for \$20K.

> Uh. What happens to the other \$20K?

> Oh, I pocket it for being an intermediary.

Hmm....

Micah and I start brainstorming scenarios in which this could possibly
be legal. We debate and debate looking for ways that this situation
might be kosher. *Surely there must be some way to arrange this so it is
legal. Perhaps we are misunderstanding him.* Nothing legitimate comes to
mind. We’re in real need of a client so we have a lot of motivation to
see this in some sort of positive light.

Being too close to the situation, I call my friend (and our company
lawyer) Walter to provide an objective outside opinion. After I explain
the situation, he points out **this is a classic example of a kickback**
and is in no way legal nor ethical. Not even close. No amount of
convoluted reasoning will take the stink of this crap. We would be
helping him to steal from his own company.

While we could really use the business, Micah and I conclude that we
don’t want to start our company off on the wrong foot with an illegal or
unethical dealing. In fact, even if it *was* legal, we wanted to run our
company with a higher standard than *just legal*. Our business is a
reflection of our values and we want it to be held to the highest of
ethical standards. Sure, we struggled this time. But we’d never need to
struggle again by following one simple ethical rule:

**If it doesn’t pass the smell test, we pass.**

VelocIT has stayed true to that direction ever since. I think it is a
great way to run a business.

