---
layout: post
title: "Increase Productivity With Search Driven Development"
date: 2007-03-16 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 18248
categories: []
---
[![Search Magnifying
Glass](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/IncreaseProductivityWithSearchDrivenDeve_E9CF/magnifyGlass00009_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/IncreaseProductivityWithSearchDrivenDeve_E9CF/magnifyGlass00009%5B2%5D.jpg)
With all the advances in software development in the past few years, I
would have to point to [Google](http://google.com/ "Google") and [Google
Groups](http://groups.google.com/ "Google Groups") as the two tools that
provide the biggest productivity enhancements for me as a software
developer. This fact is probably nothing new to any of you.

**Search as a development tool is a phenomena some are starting to refer
to as*****Search Driven Development***(Not to be confused with Test
Driven Development).

Let's face it, at the rate that new technology is being churned out
these days, and given the huge size of many of these frameworks we use,
it is impossible to [learn everything up
front](http://secretgeek.net/3way.asp "Three ways to know anything"). At
some point, we have to stop RTFM’ing, put the documentation down, and
start coding. And when we run into trouble, we thank our lucky stars
that Google is there to save the day.

**Wouldn’t it be great to have some of that search power integrated in
your IDE?** It turns out that
[Koders.com](http://www.koders.com/ "Koders") have done just that. They
provide two free IDE plugins available, one for Eclipse and one for
Visual Studio.NET, on their website in the [downloads
section](http://www.koders.com/info.aspx?c=tools "Koders.com Downloads").

When you go to the site, there’s a little animation demonstrating the
plugin. Click the *View Again* button if you missed it.

Here’s a screenshot I took of SmartSearch^TM^ in action. After typing
out the method name, a moment later, the result shows up.

![Screenshot of Koders SmartSearch\<sup\>TM\</sup\> in
action.](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/IncreaseProductivityWithSearchDrivenDeve_E9CF/image%7B0%7D%5B13%5D.png)

The Smart Search feature is a bit Clippy like at times and sometimes
exhibits a bit of lag, making it less useful than it could be. You may
just want to turn it off and choose to use the plugin search box
directly.

Though there is room for improvement, I think SmartSearch^TM^ is really
a really interesting application of context based search and could be
quite useful as a double check while writing code. *Oh hey, there are
already 100 implementations of this method. Let’s see how mine stacks
up. Avert my eyes from the GPL licensed code!*

![Search
Box](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/IncreaseProductivityWithSearchDrivenDeve_E9CF/image%7B0%7D%5B18%5D.png)

Under the hood, these plugins make use of the [Koders.com search
engine](http://koders.com/ "Search Code"). This engine directly indexes
source control repositories and allows users to quickly search and
browse through Open Source code. It’s includes a nice interface and
provides all the information necessary (such as the license) so you can
make an informed decision on whether to use it or not. You can also
choose to filter by language and license.

Given my interest in Open Source software, I had heard of Koders.com but
didn’t know about their plugins till today, when I had lunch with Darren
Rush, the CEO of Koders.com. Little did I know until Darren contacted me
via my blog, Koders.com is based in Los Angeles! *Darren turned me on to
the term Search Driven Development.*

Finally! **A Los Angeles based company doing something really
interesting in the Open Source space that isn’t part of “The
Industry”.** Very Cool!

*As an aside, during our conversation, we wondered why L.A. doesn’t have
anywhere close to the tech industry that the Bay Area does. We seem to
have all the elements here, but not the community. I seem to think it’s
because this area is dominated by the film industry. He pointed out that
geography due to the horrible traffic creates pockets of communities.
Probably a bit of both.*

But I digress.

In any case, lest you think I’m shilling (*Yeah, he bought lunch, but I
can’t be bought that cheaply!*), the other player in this field that
I’ve heard about (apart from the [obvious 800lb
gorilla](http://www.google.com/codesearch "Google Code Search")) is
[Krugle.com](http://krugle.com/ "Krugle"). While their site has a nice
color scheme and look and feel, I found Koders easier to use because of
its similarity in layout to Google (did I mention Koders is L.A.
based?).

I think sticking to the Google Search look (searchbox in the middle) is
a smart move for any search site. As soon as I see such a site, I know
what to do and where to type. Krugle has a beta plugin to Eclipse, but
doesn’t seem to have anything for Visual Studio.NET yet.

