---
layout: post
title: "Build a Custom Open Source Search Index"
date: 2007-09-14 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 18391
categories: []
---
Here’s a little plug for something we’ve been working hard at over at
Koders. Everyone knows that if you want to find open source code, you go
to [http://www.koders.com/](http://www.koders.com/) (it recently got a
minor [new
facelift](http://www.koders.com/blog/?p=93 "If one has no vanity...") so
check it out). That’s my area of responsibility here. However, after
many many months of hard work, [we released Koders Pro
Edition](http://www.koders.com/blog/?p=94 "Koders Pro Edition Launches")
1.0 this week. I helped a bit with this, but it’s mostly due to the hard
work of the rest of the team that this is out there, especially
[Ben](http://www.beebe4.com/ "Ben Mcdonald"), the product manager for
Pro.

![The Yin-Yang of Open Source and Private
Code](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/BuildACustomOpenSourceSearchIndexWithPro_CBF0/home_koders_symbol_1_5.gif)Pro
Edition is the yin to the Koders.com yang. Pro Edition is great for
searching and sharing your and your team’s internal code.

This should not be confused with desktop code search, although it can
certainly be used in that manner. Rather, it’s more similar to the
Google Search Appliance. Something you can install on a server, point it
to your source control or files system, and now your whole team can
quickly search and find your internal code.

While the focus of Pro Edition is on indexing your internal code, it
doesn’t preclude you from indexing public open source code. After all,
Pro Edition is cut from the same cloth (though scaled down) as the
indexer we use for
[http://www.koders.com/](http://www.koders.com/ "Koders Open Source Search"),
so you’re getting a lot of power under the hood.

Pro Edition allows private and public code to be intermingled if you so
desire. For example, suppose your company has a limited set of open
source projects you’d like to be able to search. Because Pro Edition
supports indexing any CVS and Subversion repository (the two most widely
used source control systems used by open source projects), there’s
nothing stopping you from pointing your local Pro Edition at an open
source code repository and start indexing that code along with your
internal code.

Doing this would allow you to create a **private** searchable index of
“approved” open source code. If this sounds interesting to you, [try out
the free
trial](http://www.koders.com/gopro/ "Koders Pro Edition Download").

