---
layout: post
title: "MIX07 Pics From Mix"
date: 2007-05-02 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 18301
categories: []
---
Thought I’d post a few pics from mix with some notes. Click on any for a
larger view.

[![Phil Jeff and
Jon](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/phil-jeff-john_thumb%5B1%5D.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/phil-jeff-john%5B7%5D.jpg "Me, Jeff Atwood, and Jon Galloway")

This first one is of the three amigos, not to mention coauthors. That is
me on the left sporting a Subtext shirt, [Jeff
Atwood](http://codinghorror.com/ "Jeff Atwood") in the middle, complete
with CodingHorror sticker, and [Jon
Galloway](http://weblogs.asp.net/jgalloway/ "Jon Galloway") on the
right.

[![Scott Hanselman and Rob
Conery](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/scott-rob_thumb%5B1%5D.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/scott-rob%5B5%5D.jpg "Scott and Rob")

That’s [Scott
Hanselman](http://hanselman.com/blog/ "Scott Hanselman's Blog") (who
runs [that other .NET open source blog
engine](http://www.dasblog.net/ "DasBlog")) on the left and [Rob
Conery](http://blog.wekeroad.com/ "Rob Conery") (of Subsonic fame) on
the right. The joke here is that Scott is standing on some stairs
because [Rob Conery is a
giant](http://haacked.com/archive/2007/02/01/Night_At_The_Roxbury_With_Mr._Subsonic.aspx "Night at the Roxbury with Mr. Subsonic").

[![ScottGu Miguel and
Me](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/scott-miguel-phil_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/scott-miguel-phil%5B4%5D.jpg "ScottGu, Miguel, and Me")

Sometimes, the best parts of conferences are outside of the sessions. A
few of us were sitting around having drinks when we spotted [Scott
Guthrie](http://weblogs.asp.net/scottgu/ "Scott Guthrie") walking by.
Not content to just let him be on his merry way, as that would be the
polite thing to do. We called him over and he proceeded to regale us
with stories and walked us through some of the namespaces and such of
Silverlight.

ScottGu, as he is known, is a total class act and I was happy to finally
meet him in person.

[![Sam
Phil](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/phil-and-sam_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/phil-and-sam%5B2%5D.jpg "Sam Ramji and me")

Here I am regaling [Sam Ramji](http://samus.typepad.com/ "Sam Ramji")
with an obviously hilarious joke. The picture is not, you know, staged
whatsoever. No, not at all.

Sam’s is Director of Platform Technology Strategy and runs the [Open
Source Software Lab at Microsoft](http://port25.technet.com/ "Port25").
Didn’t know there was someone in charge of Open Source at Microsoft?
Neither did I until meeting him. A few of us had his ear during a
dinner. Hopefully we’ll see some interesting things come out of it.

[![Tantek and
Phil](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/tantek-me_thumb%5B5%5D.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/tantek-me%5B9%5D.jpg "Technorati Tantek and me")

[Tantek Çelik](http://tantek.com/ "Tantek’s Blog") was walking by and
noticed my [XKCD t-shirt](http://xkcd.com/c149.html "Funny Comic") which
sports a unix joke and had to take a picture. Not many people got the
joke.

[![John
Lam](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/john-lam_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/john-lam%5B2%5D.jpg "John Lam preparing for a talk")

[John Lam](http://www.iunknown.com/ "friend met") prepares for the
Dynamic Language Runtime session with [Jim
Hugunin](http://blogs.msdn.com/hugunin/ "Jim Hugunin"). This was one of
my favorite sessions. One of the demonstrations was an application that
allowed them to evaluate script dynamically using Silverlight. The neat
part was they could switch languages, for example from Ruby to Python,
and still evaluate properties of objects they had declared in the
previous language. Hot!

I got a chance to hang out more with John more at Pure and really
enjoyed his perspective on Microsoft and child rearing.

[![Jeff Phil Miguel
Jon](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/mono-demo_thumb%5B1%5D.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/mono-demo%5B5%5D.jpg "Jeff, me, Miguel, and Jon")

Jeff, Jon, and I intently watch as Miguel de Icaza gives us a demo of
Mono. The rotating cube desktop is pretty sweet.

[![Miguel
Jeff](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/jeff-man-crush-miguel_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/jeff-man-crush-miguel%5B2%5D.jpg "Miguel and Jeff")

Jeff cannot conceal his *Man Crush* on Miguel.

[![Scott
Stansfield](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/scott-guital_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/MIX07PicsFromMix_2F86/scott-guital%5B2%5D.jpg "Scott Stansfield")

Scott Stanfield, CEO of Vertigo, on the right playing Guitar Hero, the
addict. Tonight he and I cleaned up at Spanish 21, winning over \$300
each. This surprised the guy at the craps table who informed us that
Spanish 21 is a terrible game in terms of odds. But aren’t they all?

