---
layout: post
title: "Is Pizza Brain Food?"
date: 2008-03-21 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 18465
categories: [personal]
---
My family and I recently moved into our new home after a two month stay
in temporary housing. One of the perks of moving is when your stuff is
delivered from storage, it feels like Christmas again. “*Oooh! Look at
all the boxes I get to unwrap. Hey! I have a Stereo just like this
one!*”.

I have a tendency to get distracted by the things I’m unwrapping. For
example, I found a few of my old college Math textbooks. I started
thumbing through the Complex Analysis, Abstract Algebra, and Number
theory books and they seemed like total gibberish to me.

Artists and writers often get all the credit for *creativity*. It’s
often why people call them *creative types*. Meanwhile, mathematicians
are often unfairly portrayed and humorless, pencil pushing, *uncreative
types*. This is so not true. Many mathematicians use computers now and
love telling jokes like “Can you prove that the integral of *e* to the
*x* is equal to *f* sub *u* of *n*?” Perhaps if I write out the equation
the joke becomes more apparent.

> ∫e^x^ = f~u~(n)

Hey, I didn’t say mathematicians had a **[good sense of
humor](http://www.math.ualberta.ca/~runde/jokes.html "Math Jokes"). The
fact is that this idea that mathematicians lack creativity comes from
those who never made it to higher math. Once you hit abstract algebra,
number theory, non-Euclidean geometry, etc... you start to wonder if
perhaps the giants in the field were smoking a little something
something to come up with this stuff.

The creativity involved in some of the proofs (or even the questions the
proofs prove) just boggles the mind. I imagine that the [proof of
Fermat’s Last
Theorem](http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/proof/ "Solving Fermat: Andrew Wiles")
(which reportedly took 7 straight years of work to crack) is something
that pretty much nobody in the world understands. Not unlike an abstract
painting in a modern art museum. But I digress...

Number theory was my favorite class at the time so I thought I’d sit
down, crack open the text, and see if I could understand one problem and
even make progress on it.

No Dice.

I understood this stuff once, when I was in college, but now, when I’m
older and wiser, I am slower to pick it up, *even though I understood it
once already*. So I started thinking? What is different between the now
me and the college me? Then it hit me...

Pizza Consumption!

 [![mmm-pizza](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/IsPizzaBrainFood_770D/mmm-pizza_thumb.jpg)](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/IsPizzaBrainFood_770D/mmm-pizza_2.jpg)

Think about it for a sec. They often say programmers are machines that
turns coffee into code. I wonder if college math students are machines
that turn Pizza into solved problem sets? And what about the mythical
lore of those early Dot-Com boom startups which started off as a small
group of recent college students, Pepsi, and a bunch of Pizzas and ended
up selling for millions? Pizza was the common denominator.

I think I’m on to something here. Perhaps Pizza is brain food. I wonder
if it’s the Mozzarella or the Pepperoni. Of course, the problem for me
now is that college was a long time ago. While the question of whether
Pizza is brain food is mere idle speculation, it is a well established
fact that Pizza is definitely gut food. Food for thought.

Technorati Tags:
[Pizza](http://technorati.com/tags/Pizza),[Humor](http://technorati.com/tags/Humor),[College](http://technorati.com/tags/College),[Math](http://technorati.com/tags/Math)

