---
layout: post
title: "Recent Podcasts"
date: 2009-11-22 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 18662
categories: []
---
Just wanted to highlight a couple of podcasts that were
~~suckers~~gracious enough to have me as a guest.

[![microphone](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/RecentPodcasts_12E66/microphone_3.jpg "microphone")](http://www.sxc.hu/photo/1188223 "Microphone with filter - by kpeterson")

### HerdingCode

In this podcast I join the fellas at
[HerdingCode](http://herdingcode.com/ "HerdingCode"). Although this
podcast came out *after* the Hanselminutes one, it was actually recorded
a long time prior to that one. [Jon
Galloway](http://weblogs.asp.net/jgalloway "Jon Galloway's Blog"), who
does the editing, probably has some lame excuse about [life changing
events keeping him
busy](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/OurLittleTeamIsGrowingWelcomeToJonGallowayAndPeteBrown.aspx "Life changing events").

I spent most of the time covering what’s new with ASP.NET MVC 2 Preview
2, how the community influences our project, and how we prioritize bugs.
I also finally reveal the dirty truth about [Rob
Conery](http://blog.wekeroad.com/ "Rob Conery's Blog")’s departure from
Microsoft.

What’s notable about this episode is the introduction of a brand new
segment, “Abusive Questions from Twitter”. I was having problems with my
Borg implant and there was disruption of the transmission of marketing
answer from the mother ship. Hear me stumble and ramble through the
answer to that one when all I really meant to say was “I think ASP.NET
MVC has a lot going for it, but use what makes you happy.” These guys
are great at putting you on the spot. :)

[**Listen: Herding Code 64: Phil Haack on MVC
2**](http://herdingcode.com/?p=222 "Herding Code 64")

### Hanselminutes

In this one I chat with my friend and co-worker [Scott
Hanselman](http://hanselman.com/blog/ "Scott Hanselman's blog"), who is
as great an interviewer as he [is a
speaker](http://microsoftpdc.com/Sessions/FT59 "ASP.NET MVC 2: Ninjas Still on Fire Black Belt Tips").

We spend most of the interview talking about ASP.NET MVC 2 Beta.

This one is notable as the interview is interrupted by a call from the
one and only
[ScottGu](http://weblogs.asp.net/scottgu "Scott Guthrie's Blog") who
says some words about me (audible on the podcast) that you never want to
hear about you coming from your VP.

He was only joking. (*Right Scott? Ha ha ha… It was a joke, right? Ha ha
ha…. Ha?)*

[**Listen: Hanselminutes Show \#188: ASP.NET MVC 2 Beta with Phil
Haack**](http://hanselminutes.com/default.aspx?showID=206 "Hanselminutes show 188")

I hope you enjoy them and if you hated them, I welcome constructive
criticism. It’s so much easier to gather your thoughts when writing than
when being interviewed. I’m impressed that these guys all do so well to
be quick witted and come up with great questions time and time again.

Technorati Tags:
[asp.net](http://technorati.com/tags/asp.net),[aspnetmvc](http://technorati.com/tags/aspnetmvc),[podcast](http://technorati.com/tags/podcast)

