---
layout: post
title: "Simple Usability"
date: 2009-03-24 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 18600
categories: [code]
---
Recently, I tried to accomplish a simple task on a website which
frustrated me because what should have been simple, was not. All I
wanted to do was go to the [Mix
website](http://live.visitmix.com/ "VisitMix") and quickly find links to
my sessions so I could post them here. Even *I* should be able to figure
this out.

As a note, I’m using the Mix site as my illustration here, but I do it
out of love and not mean spiritedness. Mix is my favorite conference,
but its website…leaves something to be desired.

It seems particularly interesting that I’d run into this with the Mix
site because the whole conference caters to a web design audience as
well as web development. It just goes to show that even the best
designers sometimes lose sight of what makes a user interface usable in
the pursuit of cool flashy design. After all, designers often are trying
to impress their designer friends when they should be creating a site
that allows its audience to accomplish something?

Let’s take a look at my experience. Here’s the front page. Where do I
start?

![mix-site](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/SimpleUsability_B713/mix-site_3.png "mix-site")

Notice that there’s no search feature (I already tried Google). Fine, so
I click all sessions and get this timeline view. There’s a search button
there but when I type “MVC” and hit GO, nothing happens. I also try my
last name. No go.

![Sessions - Windows Internet
Explorer](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/SimpleUsability_B713/Sessions%20-%20Windows%20Internet%20Explorer_3.png "Sessions - Windows Internet Explorer")
Near the bottom, I click on SPEAKERS and find my name. I then try
clicking on one of my sessions which is highlighted as a link, and
nothing happens (it’s since been fixed). When I highlight the session, a
pop-up which appears to have links shows up, but I can’t seem to move my
mouse over it because it disappears before my mouse gets there.

![Speakers - Windows Internet
Explorer](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/SimpleUsability_B713/Speakers%20-%20Windows%20Internet%20Explorer_3.png "Speakers - Windows Internet Explorer")

After a moment of pondering, it occurs to me that maybe the video of my
talk was not yet available at the time (it is now as I write this). It
would have been nice if the site clearly indicated this, but instead,
they were providing a link that went nowhere, giving me the impression
that the video *was* available. Very confusing!

Now contrast that to this [great
post](http://coolthingoftheday.blogspot.com/2009/03/mix-09-quick-video-link-list.html "Mix 09 Quick Video Link List")
by Greg Duncan.

![Mix 09 Quick Video Link List - Gregs Cool [Insert Clever Name] of the
Day - Windows Internet
Explorer](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/WindowsLiveWriter/SimpleUsability_B713/Mix%2009%20Quick%20Video%20Link%20List%20-%20Gregs%20Cool%20%5BInsert%20Clever%20Name%5D%20of%20the%20Day%20-%20Windows%20Internet%20Explorer_3.png "Mix 09 Quick Video Link List - Gregs Cool [Insert Clever Name] of the Day - Windows Internet Explorer")

Notice that it’s the height of simplicity. It’s a list of all sessions
(after all, the list of sessions wasn’t all *that* long) with headings
showing you which video format the session is available in. I would have
loved to see something like this on the Mix site.

A quick *F3* to bring up my browser’s search feature, type in MVC, and
boom goes the dynamite, I’ve found my sessions and am happily dissecting
my speaking performance in disgust.

Kudos to Greg for putting this together. The fact that he even *needed*
to put this together is a major indication that there’s a problem over
at the Mix site.

The problem here is that in the pursuit of cool design, designers
sometimes confuse *ornamentation* with good design. The Mix site has all
sorts of flashy elements showing off a mastery of jQuery. Whoopee! And
typically, I love those elements because when done well, they can make a
site more usable. But in this case, I much prefer Greg’s simpler
approach.

There’s not that much data to display, so rather than chop it up into
pages, he just puts it all in one page which allows me, the reader, to
make use of the familiar tools built into my browser such as F3 to
search. Bam! Done! I can move on now.

Keep that in mind next time as you put together your next great user
interface. How can you make it simpler and leverage the tools already in
the client?

