---
layout: post
title: "What&rsquo;s the Difference Between a Value Provider and Model Binder?"
date: 2011-06-30 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 18800
categories: [asp.net,asp.net mvc,code]
---
ASP.NET MVC 3 introduced the ability to bind an incoming JSON request to
an action method parameter, which is something I [wrote about
before](http://haacked.com/archive/2010/04/15/sending-json-to-an-asp-net-mvc-action-method-argument.aspx "Sending JSON to an action method").
For example, suppose you have the following class defined (keeping it
really simple here):

```csharp
public class ComicBook {
  public string Title { get; set; }
  public int IssueNumber { get; set; }
}
```

And you have an action method that accepts an instance of ComicBook:

```csharp
[HttpPost]
public ActionResult Update(ComicBook comicBook) {
  // Do something with ComicBook and return an action result
}
```

You can easily post a comic book to that action method using JSON.

Under the hood, ASP.NET MVC uses the `DefaultModelBinder` in combination
with the `JsonValueProviderFactory` to bind that value.

A question on an internal mailing list recently asked the question (and
I’m paraphrasing here), **“Why not cut out the middle man (the value
provider) and simply deserialize the incoming JSON request directly to
the model (`ComicBook` in this example)?”**

Great question! Let me provide a bit of background to set the stage for
the answer.

Posting Content to an Action
----------------------------

There are a couple of different content types you can use when posting
data to an action method.

### application/x-www-form-urlencoded

You may not realize it, but when you submit a typical HTML form, the
content type of that submission is `application/x-www-form-url-encoded`.

As you can see in the screenshot below from Fiddler, the contents of the
form is posted as a set of name value pairs separated by ampersand
characters. The name and value within each pair are separated by an
equals sign.

By the time you typically interact with this data (outside of model
binding), it’s in the form of a dictionary like interface via the
`Request.Form` name value collection.

The following screenshot shows what such a request looks like using
Fiddler.

![form-encoded-post](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/Windows-Live-Writer/Why-Isnt-The-JsonValueProviderFactory_EADC/form-encoded-post_3.png "form-encoded-post")

When content is posted in this format, the `DefaultModelBinder` calls
into the `FormValueProvider` asking for a value for each property of the
model. The `FormValueProvider` is a very thin abstraction over the
`Request.Form` collection.

### application/json

Another content type you can use to post data is `application/json`. As
you might guess, this is simply JSON encoded data.

Here’s an example of a bit of JavaScript I used to post the same content
as before but using JSON. Note that this particular snippet requires
jQuery and a browser that natively supports the `JSON.stringify` method.

```html
<script type="text/javascript">
    $(function() {
        var comicBook = { Title: "Groo", IssueNumber: 101 }
        var comicBookJSON = JSON.stringify(comicBook);
        $.ajax({
            url: '/home/update',
            type: 'POST',
            dataType: 'json',
            data: comicBookJSON,
            contentType: 'application/json; charset=utf-8',
        });
    });
</script>
```

When this code executes, the following request is created.

![json-encoded-post](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/Windows-Live-Writer/Why-Isnt-The-JsonValueProviderFactory_EADC/json-encoded-post_3.png "json-encoded-post")

Notice that the content is encoded as JSON rather than form url encoded.

JSON is a serialization format so it’s in theory possible that we could
straight deserialize that post to a `ComicBook` instance. Why don’t we
do that? Wouldn’t it be more efficient?

To understand why, let’s suppose we did use serialization and walk
through a common scenario. Suppose someone submits the form and they
enter a string instead of a number for the field `IssueNumber`. You’d
probably expect to see the following.

[![form-validation-error](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/Windows-Live-Writer/Why-Isnt-The-JsonValueProviderFactory_EADC/form-validation-error_thumb.png "form-validation-error")](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/Windows-Live-Writer/Why-Isnt-The-JsonValueProviderFactory_EADC/form-validation-error_2.png)

Notice that the model binding was able to determine that the Title was
submitted correctly, but that the `IssueNumber` was not.

If our model binder deserialized JSON into a `ComicBook` it would not be
able to make that determination because **serialization is an all or
nothing affair**. When serialization fails, all you know is that the
format didn’t match the type. You don’t have access to the granular
details we need to provide property level validation. So all you’d be
able to show your users is an error message stating something went
wrong, good luck figuring out what.

The Solution
------------

Instead, what we really want is a way bind each property of the model
one at a time so we can determine which of the fields are valid and
which ones are in error. Fortunately, the `DefaultModelBinder` already
knows how to do that when working with the dictionary-like
`IValueProvider` interface.

So all we need to do is figure out how to expose the posted JSON encoded
content via the `IValueProvider` interface. As I wrote before, [Jonathan
Carter](http://lostintangent.com/ "Jonathan Carter's Blog") had the bit
of insight that provided the solution to this problem. He realized that
you could have the JSON value provider deserialize the incoming JSON
post to a dictionary. Once you have a dictionary, it’s pretty easy to
implement `IValueProvider` and the `DefaultModelBinder` already knows
how to bind those values to a type while providing property level
validation. Score!

Value Provider Aggregation
--------------------------

The answer I provided only tells part of the story of why this is
implemented as a value provider. There’s another aspect that was
illustrated by my co-worker Levi. Sadly, for someone so gifted
intellectually, he has no blog, so I’ll paraphrase his words here (with
a bit of verbatim copying).

As I mentioned earlier, value providers provide an abstraction over
where values actually come from. Value providers are responsible for
aggregating the values that are part of the current request, e.g. from
Form collection, the query string, JSON, etc.  They basically say “I
don’t know what a ‘*FirstName*’ is for or what you can do with it, but
if you ask me for a ‘*FirstName*’ I can give you what I have.”

Model binders are responsible for querying the value providers and
building up objects based on those results.  They basically say “I don’t
know where directly to find a ‘*FirstName*’, ‘*LastName*’, or ‘*Age*’,
but if the value provider is willing to give them to me then I can
create a Person object from them.”

Since model binders aren’t locked to individual sources (with some
necessary exceptions, e.g. `HttpPostedFile`), they can build objects
**from an aggregate of sources**. If your `Person` type looks like this:

```csharp
public class Person {
  int Id { get; set; }
  [NonNegative]
  int Age { get; set; }
  string FirstName { get; set; }
  string LastName { get; set; }
}
```

And a client makes a JSON POST request to an action method (say with the
url */person/edit/1234* with the following content:

```csharp
{ 
  "Age": 30, 
  "FirstName": "John", 
  "LastName": "Doe" 
} 
```

    \
The `DefaultModelBinder` will pull the `Id` value from the `RouteData`
and the `Age`, `FirstName`, and `LastName` values from the JSON when
building up the `Person` object. Afterwards, it’ll perform validation
without having to know that the various values came from different
sources.

Even better, if you wrote a custom `Person` model binder and made it
agnostic as to the current `IValueProvider`, you’d get the correct
behavior on incoming JSON requests without having to change your model
binder code one tiny iota.  Neither of these is possible if the model
binder is hard-coded to a single provider.

TL;DR Summary
-------------

The goal of this post was to provide a bit of detail around an
interesting aspect of how ASP.NET MVC turns strings sent to a web server
into strongly typed objects passed into your action methods.

Going back to the original question, the answer is simply, **we use a
value provider for JSON to enable property level validation of the
incoming post and also so that model binding can build up an object by
aggregating multiple sources of data without having to know anything
about those sources**.

