---
layout: post
title: "Introducing GitHub For Windows"
date: 2012-05-21 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 18858
categories: [github,git,code]
---
For the past several months I’ve been working on a project with my
amazing cohorts, [Paul](http://blog.paulbetts.org/ "Paul Betts's Blog"),
[Tim](http://timclem.wordpress.com/ "Tim Clem's Blog"), and
[Adam](https://twitter.com/aroben "Adam on Twitter"), and
[Cameron](http://www.cameronmcefee.com/blog/ "Cameron Mcefee's Blog") at
[GitHub](http://github.com/ "GitHub.com website"). I’ve had the joy of
learning new technologies and digging deep into the inner workings of
Git while lovingly crafting code.

But today, is a good day. We’ve called the shipit squirrel into action
once again! We all know that the stork delivers babies and the squirrel
delivers software. In our case, we are shipping [GitHub For
Windows](http://windows.github.com/ "GitHub For Windows Website")! Check
out the [official announcement on the GitHub
Blog](https://github.com/blog/1127-github-for-windows "GitHub For Windows Blog Post").
**GitHub for Windows is the easiest and best way to get Git on your
Windows box.**

[![gh4w-app](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/Windows-Live-Writer/Introducing-GitHub-For-Windows_1293C/gh4w-app_thumb.png "gh4w-app")](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/Windows-Live-Writer/Introducing-GitHub-For-Windows_1293C/gh4w-app_2.png)

If you’re not familiar with Git, it’s a distributed version control
system created by Linus Torvalds and his merry Linux hacking crew. If
you *are* familiar with Git, you’ll know that Git has historically been
a strange and uninviting land for developers on the Windows platform. I
call this land, Torvaldsia, replete with strange incantations required
to make things work.

Better Git on Windows
---------------------

In recent history, this has started to change due to the heroic efforts
of the [MSysGit
maintainers](http://msysgit.github.com/ "MSysGit maintainers.") who’ve
worked hard to provide a distribution of Git that works well on Windows.

**GitHub for Windows (or GH4W for short) builds on those efforts to
provide a client to Git and GitHub that’s friendly, approachable, and
inviting**. If you’re a Git noob, this is a good place to start. If
you’re a Git expert on Windows, at the very least, GitHub for Windows
can still be a useful part of your workflow. Just visit
[http://windows.github.com/](http://windows.github.com/) and click the
big green *download* button.

In this post, I’ll give a brief rundown of what gets installed and how
to customize the shell for you advanced users of Git.

As the [GitHub blog post
shows](https://github.com/blog/1127-github-for-windows "GitHub Blog post about GH4W"),
you can easily access and clone repositories on GitHub either by
clicking the Clone in Windows link from a repository on GitHub.com
itself, or by cloning a repository associated with your account directly
from the application.

The application allows you to browse, make, revert, and rollback
commits. You can also find, create, publish, merge, and delete branches.
I’ll go into more details about this sort of thing in future blog posts.
In this post, I want to talk about what gets installed and then cover
customizing the Git shell we include for you advanced Git users.

Installation
------------

If you’ve ever read the old guide to installing msysgit for Windows on
the GitHub help page, you’d know there’s a lot of configuration steps
involved. We use ClickOnce to install the application and to provide
Google Chrome style silent, automated, updates that install in the
background to keep it up-to-date.

GH4W is a sandboxed installation of Git and the GitHub application that
takes care of all that configuration. Please note, i**t will not mess
with your existing Git environment if you have one**. There will be two
shortcuts installed on your machine, one for the GH4W application and
another labeled “Git Shell”.

The Git Shell shortcut launches the shell of your choice as configured
within the GH4W application’s options menu. You can also launch the
shell from within the application for any given repository.

[![gh4w-default-shells](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/Windows-Live-Writer/Introducing-GitHub-For-Windows_1293C/gh4w-default-shells_thumb.png "gh4w-default-shells")](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/Windows-Live-Writer/Introducing-GitHub-For-Windows_1293C/gh4w-default-shells_2.png)

By default, this is PowerShell but you can change it to Bash, Cmd, or
even a custom option, which I’ll cover in a second.

Posh-Git and PowerShell
-----------------------

When you launch the shell, you’ll notice that the PowerShell option
includes [Posh-Git](https://github.com/dahlbyk/posh-git "Posh-Git") by
Keith Dahlby. I’ve [written about Posh-Git
before](http://haacked.com/archive/2011/12/13/better-git-with-powershell.aspx "Posh-Git")
and we love it so much we included it in the box. This is an even easier
way to get Posh-Git on your machine and stay up to date with the latest
version.

You might notice that our PowerShell icon doesn’t execute your existing
PowerShell profile. We worried about conflicts with existing Posh-Git
installs or whatever you might have. Instead, we execute a custom
profile script if it exists, `GitHub.PowerShell_profile.ps1`.

Just create one in the same directory as your \$profile script. In my
case, it’s in the `C:\Users\Haacked\Documents\WindowsPowerShell`
directory.

Custom Shell
------------

I’m a huge fan of [pimping out my command line shell with
Console2](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/Console2ABetterWindowsCommandPrompt.aspx "Console2").
As the previous screenshot shows, you can specify a custom shell like
Console2. However, when you launch a custom shell, it won’t load our
profile script and also won’t load the version of Posh-Git that we
include. However, we added an environment you can check within the
`Microsoft.Powershell_profile.ps1` script.

```csharp
# If Posh-Git environment is defined, load it.
if (test-path env:posh_git) {
    . $env:posh_git
}
```

The benefit here, as I mentioned earlier is that you won’t have to worry
about keeping Posh-Git up-to-date since we’ll do it for you as part of
GH4W updates.

What’s Next?
------------

I’ll try and cover a few other topics later. For example, GH4W works
with local Git repositories as well as those from other hosts. I’ll also
try and cover how I fit GitHub for Windows into my Git workflow
developing with Visual Studio. If you have other ideas for topics you’d
like me to cover, let me know.

In the meanwhile, [try it
out](http://windows.github.com/ "GitHub for Windows")!

If you have feedback, mention @github on Twitter (hashtag \#gh4w). We
make sure to read every mention on Twitter. If you find a bug, submit it
to [support@github.com](mailto:support@github.com). Every email is read
by a real person.

But of course, I expect many of you will comment right here and I’ll do
my best to keep up with responses because I love you all.

