---
layout: post
title: "You Don&rsquo;t Need A Thick Skin"
date: 2012-12-17 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 18877
categories: [code,community,empathy]
---
I have a confession to make.

I sometimes avoid your feedback on the Twitters. It’s nothing personal.
I have a *saved search* for stuff I work on because I *want* to know
what folks have to say. I want to know what problems they might run into
or what ideas they have to improve things. Nonetheless, I sometimes just
let the unread notifications sit there while I hesitate and cringe at
the thought of the vitriol that might be contained within.

I know. I know. That’s terrible. It’s long been conventional wisdom that
if you’re going to write software and ship it to other humans, you
better develop a thick skin.

Hey, I used to work at Microsoft. People have…*strong*…opinions about
software that Microsoft ships. It’s the type of place you learn to
develop a full body callus of a thick skin. So I’m with you.

But even so, when you invest so much of yourself into something you
create, it’s hard not to take criticisms personally. The Oatmeal
captures this perfectly in this snippet of his brilliant post: [Some
thoughts on and musing about making things for the
web](http://theoatmeal.com/comics/making_things "Some thoughts on making things").

[![oatmeal-on-reading-comments](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/Windows-Live-Writer/You-Dont-Need-A-Thick-Skin_BDFB/oatmeal-on-reading-comments_thumb.png "oatmeal-on-reading-comments")](http://haacked.com/images/haacked_com/Windows-Live-Writer/You-Dont-Need-A-Thick-Skin_BDFB/oatmeal-on-reading-comments_2.png)

That is me right there. I’m not going to stop shipping software so the
best thing to do is work harder and develop a thicker skin. Right?

Nope.

I strongly believed this for years, but a single blog post changed my
mind. This post didn’t say anything I hadn’t heard before. But it was
the *experience* of the author that somehow clicked and caused me to
look at things in a new way. In this case, it was Sam Stephenson’s blog
post, [You are not your
code](http://sstephenson.us/posts/you-are-not-your-code "You are not your code")
that did it for me.

In his post, he talks about the rise and fall of his creation, Prototype
and how he took its failure personally, and the lesson that he learns as
a result.

> I have learned that in the open-source world, you are not your code. A
> critique of your project is not tantamount to a personal attack. An
> alternative take on the problem your software solves is not hostile or
> divisive. It is simply the result of a regenerative process, driven by
> an unending desire to improve the status quo.

This sparked an epiphany. Reinforcing a thick skin detaches me from the
people using my software. Even worse, it puts me in an adversarial
position towards the folks who just want to get something done with the
software. This is so wrong. Rather than work on a developing a thicker
skin, I really should work on developing more empathy.

Show of hands. Have any of you ever been frustrated with a piece of
software you’re trying to use? Of course you have! Now put your hand
down. You look silly raising your hand for no reason.

How did you feel? I know how *I’ve* felt. Frustrated. Impotent. Stupid.
Angry. Perhaps I said a few words I’m not proud of about how I might
inflict bodily harm on the author in anatomically impossible ways should
we ever meet in a dark alley.

I certainly didn’t mean those words (*except in the case of*[*bundled
software written by hardware
companies*](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/2009/07/nobody-hates-software-more-than-software-developers.html "Nobody hates software more than software developers")*.
That shit makes me cray!*). I was simply lashing out due to my
frustrations.

And it hit me.

The angry tweets calling my work “a piece of crap” is written by folks
just like me. Rather than harden my stance in opposition to these folks,
**I need to be on their side!**

I need to remove the adversarial mindset and instead share in their
frustration as a fellow human who also understands what it’s like to be
angry at software. I no longer need to take this criticism personally.
This shift in mindset unblocked me from diving right into all that
feedback on Twitter. I started replying to folks with something along
the lines of “*I’m sorry. That does suck. I know it’s frustrating. I’m
going to have a word with the idiot who wrote that (namely me)! Email me
with details and I’ll work to get it fixed.*”

The end result is I’m able to provide much better support for the
software.

By doing this, I’ve also noticed a trend. When you sincerely address
people’s frustrations, they tend to respond very warmly. Many of them
know what it’s like to be criticized as well. People are quick to
forgive if they know you care and will work to make it better.

Sure, there will still be moments where I have a knee jerk reaction and
maybe lose my temper for a moment. But I think this framework for how to
think about feedback will help me do that much less and preserve my
sanity. I am definitely not my code. But I am here to help you with it.

